He stared at the screen and the screen stared back. His
fingers hovered over the keys, tingling with the anticipation of
translating the veritable epic that was firing across his
synapses. He depressed the space bar, indenting the first of
what would be countless paragraphs. The cursor flashed against
the white page, taunting him, daring him to begin.
Not today, it said, its inaudible voice a tireless, broken
record. Not today. Not today. Not today.
He closed his eyes. He could see it all so clearly. The
hero bursting onto the scene, sharp-tongued sidekick in tow,
ready to vanquish evil. The damsel in distress, crying for help
from the clutches of the nefarious villain. The moment when all
wrongs would be righted, and as the hero disappeared across the
horizon, he would finally, graciously, be allowed to type the
two words that haunted the darkest recesses of his mind.
“The End.”
He opened his eyes and saw his old foe again, gone one
moment, there the next. The godforsaken black line threatened to
be the death of him.

Not Today |2

Not today. Not today. Not today.
Ignoring it, he placed his pinky on the Shift key and typed
his first sentence.
“In the beginning…”
He cursed and deleted it. When did this become the Bible?
The cursor was practically laughing at him, dancing in place on
the page. Its continuous assault took a sickeningly sing-song
tone.
Not today. Not today.
He took a steadying breath and tried again. The resulting
introduction was awkward, but serviceable. No! No! No! It was
garbage. Utter, putrid trash! Finger on the delete key, he
watched in abject terror as the cursor moved left, devouring his
first paragraph, taking a small piece of him as it went.
Not today.
His stomach growled, drawing him from his fog of selfloathing. It’d been far too long since he’d addressed the
physical imperative for food. Admitting momentary defeat, he
turned off the computer and rose from his desk, muscles shouting
in protest at the sudden call to action.

Not Today |3

He nibbled at some rather suspect leftover pizza and
flipped on the television, trying to drown out the symphony of
failure.

*****

The next day, the cursor was waiting for him. He looked
just to the side of it, and set his fingers about their task.
Before he knew it, his thought was complete, and, much to his
surprise, so was the first paragraph. Not only was it finished,
it was good. He shot a victorious smirk at the cursor and
pressed the return key, ready for his second step towards the
finish line in the self-imposed marathon.
Except that wasn’t right. True, no one was making him put
his thoughts to the page, but he had to do it; he needed to do
it. The scenes played in his mental theater on a constant loop,
and if he didn’t set them free, there was a very real chance
that he would explode.
He marched onwards, the words flowing effortlessly from his
fingertips. The first chapter was done, then the second. Nothing
could stop him now; food and drink be damned, he was going to
finish the thing that day!

Not Today |4

And then it stopped.
He let out a brief, uneasy chuckle and stared at his hands,
willing them into action. Everything was so plain in his head,
but his brain seemed to have severed all ties with his fingers,
leaving them sitting upon the keyboard like so many dead worms.
It didn’t make sense. Only moments ago, his imagination was a
gushing fountain, splashing the page with excitement and wonder.
Now, not even so much as a trickle could be found. He would’ve
killed for a trickle.
As if on cue, the cursor returned to his field of view.
He’d almost forgotten the thing, but there it was, leaping up
and down, accentuating his shortcomings.
Not today. Not today.
His cheeks flared as he watched his eternal tormentor.
Suddenly, his cell phone sprang to life, emitting an infuriating
serious of chirps and rattles on his desk. He cursed and flung
it across the room. Who dared to interrupt him? Didn’t they know
what he was doing? How could they intrude upon his sacred duty?
He let out a breath and returned his attention to the
screen, rereading his last couple of paragraphs, trying to get
himself back into the flow. Despite his best efforts, no words
came. With a sigh of resignation, he saved his progress and

Not Today |5

moved to close the word processor. The cursor winked at him once
more before disappearing.
Not today.

*****

Days passed, turned into weeks, and crept towards the
unavoidable evolution into months. Some days, he rose from his
desk with a victorious grin. Others, he hobbled away, an empty
shell of a man.
It was on one of these lesser days that he sat at his desk,
crumpled in defeat. He was so close now. The finish line was in
sight, but he might as well have been writing in a foreign
tongue. With a sigh, he minimized the word processor and opened
his music library, picking a song at random.
He closed his eyes as the tunes floated through the room. A
minute into the song, he was ready to admit defeat and leave it
for another day, once again ceding victory to the cursor. Then,
something magical happened.
He’d heard the song hundreds of times before, but something
in the chorus jumped out at him, hiding in plain sight, as if it

Not Today |6

had been waiting for just that moment. With a simple progression
of chords, the proverbial scales were lifted from his eyes. He
saw not only the end, but the exact manner in which he would get
there.
He reopened the word processor, heart racing. The cursor
blinked at him as always, but this time was different. There was
something angry in its voice, something frightened.
Not today. Not today!
Yes today, dammit! His fingers danced across the keyboard,
racing to get away from the cloud of self-doubt that had taken
residence in his subconscious. His words flew onto the page, no
longer threatened by the cursor, but chasing it, forcing it away
from his fledgling work.
Hours passed, but he barely noticed. The hero dealt the
final blow, casting the villain into oblivion. The damsel sang
his praises. The sidekick made a witty remark, and everyone
laughed, glad to finally be free of oppression. The hero
disappeared over the horizon, and there was only one thing left
to do.
He paused, his fingers tingling with anticipation as he
depressed the shift key for the last time. He took a breath and
painted his final brushstroke.

Not Today |7

“The End.”
He leaned back in his chair, satisfied. He’d waged a war,
and though he had suffered many blows, he’d emerged victorious.
The job was far from over, but that didn’t matter. He saved his
work and stood, breathing easily for the first time in recent
memory.

*****

Revisions were made. A few spelling mishaps here, a couple
of grammatical errors there, but nothing that would undo him.
His work stood on its own, and he was proud. Once he was
satisfied that it was as close to perfect as he could make it,
he printed it, and with a silent prayer, sent it to the
publisher.
The intervening weeks were equal parts ecstasy and terror.
He knew that he’d given it his all, and that it was now out of
his hands, but that did little to reassure him. Someone else was
in charge of his work’s fate, and that was almost more than he
could bear.

Not Today |8

Finally, he received the letter. His fingers were numb as
he tore open the envelope, his heart falling, but not surprised
to see the form-letter rejection within. It was filled with the
usual drivel. “We appreciate your interest”, “We’re going in
another direction”, ad nauseum. He’d prepared himself for such a
response. In all honesty, he wasn’t as disheartened as he’d
imagined he’d be.
At the bottom, next to the stamped signature, was a
handwritten note.
“You have something good here. Someone will want to publish
this. Unfortunately, it just won’t work for us. At least, not in
today’s market.”
The similarity of the last sentence with the cursor’s
unceasing chant wasn’t lost on him.
Disappointed, but not defeated, he sat at his desk and
opened the word processor. His was an eternal calling, and the
next adventure was already forming in his mind. He began typing,
and right on cue, the cursor appeared.
Not today.
Maybe not. Maybe not even tomorrow. But someday.

Not Today |9


