It was a crisp and bright September morning and retired
army general David Kingston (always known as DK to his military
peer group) was up early – he had body parts to clear up from
his back garden. The previous day’s events had not brought any
undue restlessness for him overnight. He had slept soundly and
felt thoroughly rested and recharged.
Just like his military operations in the good old days, the
general had planned such an eventuality with precision and
executed the plan with determined purpose. After all, the three
men who had been intent on stripping his precious apple trees of
their bountiful wares were fair game in this current state of
runaway anarchy that was in effect.
The disbandenment of all law enforcement agencies as a
result of a total and global economic collapse was inevitable,
as no one in their right mind was prepared to be the arbiters of
policing with the certainty of receiving no wage in return for
an increasingly dangerous and thankless career. The Armed forces
were a pale shadow of their former selves as a result of savage
budget cuts. What was left of them were too thinly stretched

2
fighting pointless extended overseas wars, for the government of
the day to turn to their services in the name of civil order –
at least for the time being. The government or what remained of
it had largely become a token gesture of organization, with no
meaningful powers to speak of (other than to send the military
off to fight increasingly pointless overseas wars). It had
become a desperate, selfless society with protection and
survival left totally to the individual. The notion of ‘the
survival of the fittest’ was now very much the order of the day,
and on a daily basis.
The wily general was certainly one of the fittest despite
his retired status. He had kept himself super physically fit and
mentally fine-tuned and with his connections, had been able to
accrue a substantial arsenal of ‘personal protection’ devices, a
couple of which had dispatched his fruit-minded intruders the
previous afternoon. Sure, it had made a mess of his perfectly
manicured lawn, but the general considered this to be a price
worth paying to maintain his burgeoning crop of blast-proof,
lead-shielded Cox’s Orange Pippin. The only disappointment he
felt was that his security system had been breached and that the
doomed trio had made it as far as his garden. Once the mess had
been cleared, he would need to reprogramme and repair things to
ensure such an infringement could not be repeated.

3
That he had to resort to such extreme measures to protect
his property and possessions was a source of rueful regret to
this proud patriot and strict disciplinarian. The decline in
moral and social standards precipitated by the apocalyptic
financial collapse appalled Kingston deeply, but there was no
way back now – it was a case of do or die. He would do whatever
was required to thwart those who threatened his own survival. If
the men had knocked on his front door and politely asked for
some of the apples, the general would have been happily disposed
to have obliged their request. However, such a scenario in such
desperate times was a pipe dream.
#
After a lifetime of faithful military service for his
country, the general had somewhat reluctantly retired to a
fairly sizeable, yet modest house in a leafy and secluded culde-sac. Kingston had generally answered to no one in his armed
forces career, but to his wife Serena, he was more compliant,
and so the choice of location was very much of her volition.
From the outset he had barely tolerated his neighbours who were
a grim assortment of bankers and accountants, and with some
success had managed to avoid the rounds of dinner parties,
house-warming get-togethers and other enforced social events
arranged by one or two of the more eager couples. On those
occasions when his wife had got her way on these matters, the

4
evening had generally finished with Kingston upsetting or
insulting the host or hostess, thereby ensuring a repeat invite
would not be forthcoming. Since the unexpected death of his wife
just a year or so into his retirement (rumour in the cul-de-sac
was that he had driven her to an early death since he had joined
her at home full time), Kingston had become increasingly selfsufficient and isolated from those around him. With an estranged
son living abroad who he had not spoken to for a decade or more,
and no other immediate family to concern himself with, the
general was fully focused on staying alive and getting through
to the other side of this anarchic state of affairs – if there
was another side.
The neighbours were well aware of what the no-nonsense
general was capable of in terms of his own protection. Through
twitching curtains, they had seen the heavily armoured vehicles
arrive periodically outside Kingston’s house over the preceding
months and then unload their cargo of undisguised, past their
sell-by-date military hardware. With no one in authority to stop
him now, there was no point in being subtle or understated in
such operations. In fact, Kingston made the spectacle as
deliberate and public as possible to ensure that none of his
neighbours should even consider any attempt on his property. The
three hapless intruders of the day before were from beyond the
local environs and, blinded by the juicy pickings seemingly on

5
offer and painfully unaware of the capabilities of the man whose
land they had encroached upon, were totally oblivious to what
fate was in store for them once they had accessed the heavilymined lawned area of number 22 Brick Kiln Gardens. The grave
(and messy) price they paid for their indiscretion provided
further warning to nosey neighbours that number 22 and its owner
were not to be messed with.
#
Having spent a couple of hours or so out in his partially
crated garden, calmly collecting splintered limbs and chunks of
torso into a wheelbarrow, the general emptied the bloodied
contents of the barrow into the large composting area further
back from the apple trees and adjacent to his extensive and
impressively varied vegetable plot. He proceeded to fork the
body parts amongst old grass cuttings, leaves and other garden
detritus. Nothing could be wasted in times such as these. The
heavy shields encircling the apple trees had done their job
admirably with only very superficial damage to the facing
surfaces. The satisfied general then dug over the damaged lawn
area ready for new grass to be laid at some point in the future,
spread sand onto the pools of blood to soak up the crimson
fluid, and made his way back into the house for a spot of lunch.
Such was his nerve and composure that his appetite had not been
spoiled by his latest activities.

6
As he walked through the back door into the kitchen, the
telephone rang, and Kingston made his way into the sitting room
where the handset was located. Picking up the old fashioned
receiver, the general cleared his throat and barked out “745538,
who’s calling please?”
“Hello general, this is Mr. Hardcastle at number 40. Just
wondering what all the commotion was about yesterday?”
“Oh, just a spot of neighbourhood watch put into practice,”
the usually humourless general crisply replied. “Nothing to
concern yourself about for the moment, but word to the wise the bastards are starting to get interested in our leafy little
piece of England. I suggest you spread it on the grapevine and
prepare yourself for action.”
The other end of the line went quiet for a few seconds
before an audibly shocked Mr. Hardcastle squeaked out a pathetic
thank you and ended the brief but informative conversation.
“The ignorant fools,” Kingston muttered as he made his way
back to the kitchen. He considered his neighbours’ almost total
ignorance of the impending threat to their quiet existences as a
damning indictment of the cloistered and suffocating smallness
of their everyday lives. Certainly they could see on the TV the
mounting discord and violence now prevalent in the major cities,
but their detachment out here in the countryside gave them a
ludicrous and thoroughly misplaced sense of safety.

7
“It won’t be long before their neat little houses and
gardens become victim to the spreading disorder and
desperation,” the general mused as he prepared a sandwich for
his lunch. Once consumed, Kingston carried two of the intruders’
heads at arms’ length down the path at the front of his house,
and placed them on metal spikes attached to his security gate.
He had decided to take a lesson from medieval history and use
this gory display as a stern warning for others not to make the
same mistake. No one, especially in times of desperation, took
any notice of written warning signage, whereas this show of
intent would surely dissuade any would-be aggressors. The
neighbours would of course be appalled at the dreadful affront
to the tone of the cul-de-sac, but Kingston cared not a jot and
knew full well that they had no one left in authority that they
could call upon for help.
#
By Christmas time, fresh food supplies other than those
produced individually were all but exhausted. The general had
harvested a fine quantity of Cox’s orange pippin which was now
safely stored in the cool corners of his underground bunker,
along with vegetables grown in his, by now extremely well
composted plot. Numerous shelves were copiously stocked with
tinned food and bottled water. Electricity supplies were patchy
at best, but again the general had planned for such an

8
eventuality with a number of large batteries and stand-alone
generators which would provide for his needs for a considerable
time to come. All-in-all, the secure bunkered area he had
constructed by hand and sweat over the preceding decade or so
underneath his house, would ensure as good a sanctuary from the
madness taking place in the outside world as it was humanly
possible to devise. The general’s military training and innate
sense of where the world was heading to, had given him as good a
chance of pulling through the ensuing social cataclysm as
anyone. Down in the depths of his concrete and steel underground
fortress, this would be his own territory, his own autonomous
and private state of existence. All rules would be of his
devising for his benefit and survival until the situation ‘up
top’ had improved. It was a very real ‘bunker mentality’ that
fixed itself in the mind of the former military man – he could
see no other means of salvation.
As the outside situation deteriorated with an ever more
bloody predictability, Kingston sat at his study desk one night
with just the glow of two candles for company, listening closely
to the radio to what news updates were being put out on the
airwaves by the remaining brave/stupid journalists and
independent news organizations who still thought such a service
was their duty to perform. He was no admirer of such do-gooders
in normal times, but found their efforts invaluable now in

9
deciding on a date when the house and grounds would have to be
permanently abandoned for the impenetrability of his underground
hideaway. As the yellow candle light flickered off the peeling
paintwork of his study wall, the general sighed in acceptance
that this part of his survival plan would have to be put into
operation before the month end. Brick Kiln Gardens, as with
every former affluent and reasonably remote area of the country,
was now being increasingly targeted by the desperate evacuees of
the major towns and cities which had largely been ransacked and
raised to the ground. Mr. Hardcastle at number 40 had suffered a
sticky end just the previous week as he returned from a trip out
on his bicycle looking for supplies. His return was unluckily
timed as a group of maybe five or six men looking for supplies
of their own were waiting in ambush. After forcing Kingston’s
hapless neighbour to give them access to his home and then
taking what provisions they could find, they had dispatched Mr.
Hardcastle and his wife with a ruthless lack of compassion. The
whole spectacle had been afforded to the general via his still
functioning CCTV system on the perimeter of his property. The,
by now rotting and bird-pecked spectacle of the spiked heads at
his own gateway, had for the time being been sufficient
deterrent against attack on his heavily fortified property.
However, he knew that it was only a matter of time before a
combination of electrical failure and intruder determination

10
would force his hand and drive him below into the bunker. That
time was imminent.
#
It happened to be February and it happened to be a leap
year, and so Kingston’s preparations for his ‘underground year
zero’ were geared towards the 29th of the month, by which time
all his possessions worth saving would have been moved below.
With snow on the ground in his beloved garden and a house
increasingly devoid of its former contents and character, as the
appointed day approached, Kingston steeled himself against the
isolation to come. Would it be months? Would it be years? Would
it be longer and therefore a question of when his food and water
ran out? He had shown the presence of mind in previous years of
spending weeks on end down in his bunker even when the world was
still financially stable. The threat of a nuclear Armageddon had
always been lurking in the background – this is what drove the
general to construct his bunker in the first place. Even though
the weapons-induced cataclysm had failed to materialize, his
foresightedness had been rewarded with a secure refuge now in
the time of the financially induced apocalypse.
On the morning of the 29th, the general rose early, took
one last tour of his garden and decided to do a final reccy of
the house to make sure he hadn’t missed anything worth saving
down below. As he made the final inspection of the bedrooms on

11
the upper floor, the front security gate buzzer sounded
downstairs. He certainly wasn’t expecting company. He briefly
considered ignoring it but his curiosity got the better of him
and lured him down the stairs into his study where the security
monitors were housed. Stood at the gates were a bedraggled man
and woman who was holding a young child in her arms, whilst
carefully shielding its eyes from the grisly spiked head
display.
“Who are you and what do you want?” Kingston barked out in
the direction of the microphone grill.
“Straight to the jist as ever,” the man replied. “It’s
Stephen, your son, and I’d be grateful if you could see your way
to letting me, the wife and your grandkid inside, away from this
madness out here?”
“Jesus, I have a grandchild?” the general replied in
indignation.
“I assure you, we haven’t just kidnapped a kid off the
streets,” his son countered.
The two men had been estranged ever since DK’s son had
pointedly refused to follow in the military footsteps of his
father and service in the name of his country, and pursue a life
of leisure abroad.
“How do I know this is not a trap and you are the bait?”
the suspicious general enquired.

12
“For fuck’s sake father, give me some measure of credit
that I wouldn’t be prepared to commit such a trick.”
“Hmm, maybe but with the way things are, I’m sure you would
expect me to take no silly risks with security. Stay where you
are and I’ll come to the gate to make sure there’s no funny
business afoot. Please refrain from using language of that
nature in front of my grandchild.”
“That’s very gracious of you,” his son remarked
sarcastically. “I apologise for swearing but it seems a pretty
tame failing compared to putting heads on spikes!”
His wife punched his arm hard, realizing the delicacy of
their situation and the consequences of her husband pissing her
father-in-law off.
After an awkward confrontation and introduction to his
newly discovered daughter-in-law (Megan) and grandson (Kyle) at
the front gate, the general’s unexpected visitors were
eventually granted an entrance onto the property. By now, the
cul-de-sac was largely empty and trashed. Kingston suspected
that he was the lone remaining inhabitant now and that
everything of any value or use had probably been pilfered
already. After a cursory scan round the former leafy glade,
Kingston and visitors made their way up the path to the house.
A couple of minutes of frosty silence hung in the air
before Stephen Kingston made his pitch; “I won’t beat around the

13
bush. We’ve not exactly been best buddies but knowing your
infamous organizational skills, I reckoned you would probably be
the best person to seek out for some sanctuary for myself and
family at this dangerous time.”
“How long have you been back in the country?” his father
coolly enquired.
“A couple of years now. We decided to move back for the
birth of Kyle, figuring that good old England would be sheltered
from the growing economic problems in Europe. Unfortunately, I
thought Greece would offer up a life of sun-drenched tranquility
but things were first to go tits up there as I’m sure you know.”
“You never did make sensible decisions,” the general
replied with clinical ease.
“True enough, but let’s face it, I was never going to be a
lifetime army recruit. I may have cocked up in my geographical
choice but have no regrets on my career path.”
Bouncing Kyle on her bare and dirty knee, Megan Kingston
felt the need to defend her husband in the perceived onslaught
to come from the crusty old general; “Stephen is a wonderful
father and husband. Whether you believe me or not, and I
appreciate we have only just made each others’ acquaintance, you
should be very proud of your son,” she interjected. “I regret,
if Stephen doesn’t, not speaking to you before about Kyle.”

14
“It would have been the decent thing to have done, but all
things considered right now, there are more pressing matters to
worry over,” the general replied. “First, by the state of you
all, a damn good scrub up is a priority. While you do that, I’ll
prepare some food and then we can discuss a way forward that is
beneficial for everyone involved.”
With that typically cool and clinical assessment of the
situation, Kingston proceeded to boil up a large bottle of water
using the last gas cylinder he had above ground. The new
arrivals gratefully accepted the proposition put to them and
relaxed on the general’s rather tatty old sofa.
#
DK had certainly never envisaged having company down in his
bunker. Despite the necessities of close daily contact with his
men in the army days, he was by nature a solitary man, in need
of only his own company and thoughts for long periods of time.
In this regard, his wife had been considerate and accommodating
– it was pointless to try and change the man she had decided at
an early stage of their relationship.
Kingston, somewhat perversely had been looking forward to
his enforced period of subterranean isolation, but now he was
faced with a dilemma of a heart versus head nature. Should he,
could he cast his son and young family back out into the
maelstrom of uncertainty that lie beyond his fortress, or do

15
what he was sure any ‘reasonable person’ in such a position
would do and allow them to share his space and provisions. The
general mulled over this while the recent arrivals cleaned up
and enjoyed some welcome tinned beans and fruit which the
general had fetched from his underground supplies. Finally, as a
hazy dusk began to settle and acquiesce into a frosty night,
having weighed up pros and cons, DK announced his decision to
his expectant guests.
“I’ve done some calculations and it seems that 4, well
3 and a half could survive down in the bunker for 18 months at
most,” Kingston said with a glance and a wink of affection at
his now sleeping grandson. “So, provisions are not the issue.
Whether we could go for that long a time without strangling each
other in a confined area probably is,” he continued.
“I’m willing to make the effort, and we have a lot of
catching up to do,” Stephen replied with a sigh of deep
gratitude.
“You also have myself and Kyle to get to know, so I
think we can be good tenants for you,” Megan added with an
affectionate smile.
Later that night, the four made their way down into the
bunker and the general locked tight the entrance/exit hatch
behind him. As the steel lock clicked into place, Kingston

16
wondered if they would ever have the opportunity to make the
return journey.
#
Over the preceding months, apart from the occasional and
inevitable infraction, the original verbal contract of tolerance
and forbearance was adhered to with admirable effort on all
parts. The bunker offered enough private areas for time to be
spent apart when required by any of its occupants. As for Kyle,
although not the ideal and healthy environment for a child to
pass some formative time separated from the stimulations of
others of his age, the labyrinthine corridors and voluminous
open spaces of the bunker lit either by candle light or battery
powered headlamps, provided an exciting and stimulating
playground, in which he was free to explore with no subsequent
dangers. Clocks and radios were kept going via the large stock
of batteries which the general had acquired. Evenings were
generally spent in each others’ company, reading, playing cards,
talking or listening to the patchy but still available radio
news updates.
This curious but peaceful haven kept its incumbents alive
and secure for a further eight months, at which time the news
from above became ever more encouraging. Remaining military and
government agencies had managed to cooperate sufficiently to
restore some degree of civil order and kick start food and

17
energy availability and distribution. Financial measures were
put in place to revive some putative economic re-genesis.
The day came when Stephen Kingston made the decision to
seek a new life above ground with his family. The damaged
relationship he had with his father had been revived as a result
of their shared incarceration in the bunker, and his wife and
son had built up new relationships with the man they had
previously not known. Bidding them farewell from the reopened
hatch, DK seemed unusually emotional.
“It seems ridiculous that it required a social and
economic collapse to bring us all together, but let’s not wait
for the next one to come along before seeing each other again,”
Kingston regretfully reflected.
“As soon as we get settled, we will get in touch and
you can come and share our space and food,” Stephen replied with
a wry smile. “I’m going to start work on a bunker of our own as
soon as I can.”
As his son and family walked down the path to the open
front gate, General Kingston began to mull over plans for the
next mission. The idiots in charge were sure to cock things up
again in the future and the next cycle of collapse and disorder
were inevitable. The same mistakes, accidental or otherwise were
sure to make this episode just one of more to come. He would
begin to re-stock the bunker and re-fortify his property. The

18
garden was in urgent need of attention but his beloved apple
trees had miraculously survived and were once again heavy with
fruit.
The state of his own providing had kept him alive and ready
for whatever was to come next.

THE END


