“Jiro,” sang the woman’s voice, “wake up, Jiro.” The boy stirred and rolled over
in bed, drawing the blankets close around his head and peeking out with one eye to the
window. It was still dark, the lights of the city orange and tired with long burning, and
there was a hint of gray in the sky. The boy gave a little grunt from the covers of his
bed. “There’s no school today, Mamma,” he called.
The shadow of his mother appeared in the doorway. “I know, Jiro,” she said.
“Did you forget? We’re going to see Grandfather today. Now hurry and get dressed. I’ll
have a big breakfast ready for you.”
The boy stared at the ceiling for a while and then rolled over. From the corner a
small lizard raced fluidly across the wall. “Good morning, gecko,” he sighed. Once
upon a time he would give names to all the geckos in the apartment. In his language the
word for gecko meant “tiger of the walls,” and in his imagination he would go hunting
for insects with them all through the small corners of his home. But he did not think the
little lizards were anything like tigers anymore.
On the shelf across from his bed there was a model steam train locomotive his
grandfather had carved from cedar wood. The wheels would move as the driver rods
swept back and circled forward in an elegant gallop, the little whistle at the top popping
up and down with the motion. When he first got the train he thought he could see little
wisps of steam escaping from the locomotive as he ran it along the floor, and the painted
headlight seemed to glow. His mother, becoming his memory, reminded him that it had
once been his favorite toy.
Jiro dressed and went sleepily to the little kitchen, and it was filled with the rich

1

The Cedar Orb
scent of eggs frying, cut with the saltiness of dried turnips. He sat down to a small bowl
of steaming rice porridge and dishes of bright yellow eggs, dried shredded pork, sweet
gherkins, and a slender, baguette-shaped loaf of light dough crisped in oil.
The boy wrinkled his nose. “This is poor people’s food. Why do we have to eat
this? Father and Taro are making lots of money now.”
His mother sat down and looked at him. “It’s good, hearty food for honest
people. And don’t you remember? Grandmother would always fix this for us, and it
would always taste so good. I bet Grandfather is having this right now, even if he can’t
cook quite so well.”
The boy stared at the dishes. “Why do we even have to go,” he said. “I don’t like
eating at Grandfather’s. He slurps his soup. And he snores.”
His mother rose from her seat. “Eat,” she said. “I’ll pack your things.”
Jiro poked at the eggs with his chopsticks, and swirled the pork with the rice,
watching it soften in the porridge. Looking over his shoulder he fished around in his
pockets and brought out a cereal bar in a shiny wrapper. He unwrapped it carefully,
trying not to make a sound, and then crammed it into his mouth. He chewed and gulped,
pushing yellow pieces of eggs into the rice, submerging them.
“Jiro,” his mother said when she returned, “you’ve hardly eaten a thing, and we
have a long trip today.”
The boy shrugged. “I’m not hungry,” he said, pushing his food around a little
more. “So why do we have to go, anyway?”
“Jiro,” his mother sighed, “get your things.”
* * *

2

The Cedar Orb
The bus finally slipped away from the snarling traffic of the city streets and began
to race through the countryside, headed towards the mountains. The stewardess, dressed
neatly in a dark blue uniform with epaulettes, greeted the passengers and began to serve
refreshments.
Jiro sat next to his mother quietly. He peered at a little screen he had pulled from
his backpack, working the controls effortlessly, earphones transmitting the sounds of
virtual explosions in time with the flashes of light. The sun flickered on the liquid
surface of rice paddies as they raced by, blurring silver and gold and green against the
morning sky. The bus slowed as it climbed into the mountains, the earth falling away
with each looping turn. Fragments of clouds began to envelop the bus in a foggy mist as
they floated past. Some would float upwards, clinging to the thick trees of the
mountainsides; some would flow down, casting thin shadows over the deep valleys.
The bus lurched to a stop in a small village, and Jiro and his mother got off. It
was late in the morning, but the skies were full of gray clouds and the mountain air was
chilly and damp. They sat on a bench overlooking the valley. She peeled a sweet pear
and shared it with him. After a while, half hidden in the mist, the bus flashed its lights
and sounded its muffled horn.
“It’s time to go,” she said.
“But we take the train from here.”
“I know,” she said, handing him his backpack. “I packed a lunch for you.”
Jiro looked at his mother, confused. “Where’s your bag?” he said.
“Jiro, you’re old enough to go by yourself now. Your grandfather wants to see
you.”

3

The Cedar Orb
“But...”
She knelt in front of him and handed him three slips of paper. “You can catch this
bus home; it will be back here tonight. The number two train leaves here in half an hour.
The number four train will leave from grandfather’s village at seven. Be sure to catch it.
It’s the last one.”
The boy shrugged, taking the tickets. “I could just take the next one tomorrow.”
His mother shook her head. “No. They’re closing the line. It’s the last one for
good.”
The bus sounded again.
“Go on, Jiro. You know the way to the station. Your father and Taro will be
back tonight, and I will supper ready for all of you.”
The boy followed his mother to the bus. As she got on she turned to him as he
stood watching her. “Go on,” she said. “You’ll be fine. You’re getting to be a very big
boy now. And grandfather will be waiting for you.”

Jiro watched as the bus turned around to retrace its route; he clutched the straps of
his backpack as it rested on the ground. After the bus disappeared into the gray morning,
he looked at the run-down buildings of the village. Though it was late in the morning it
was very quiet, and Jiro felt like he was alone as he walked through the narrow streets.
He looked at the old, faded signs on the buildings. The chipping paint transformed the
characters on them into unfamiliar words. He had hoped there would be passengers at the
train station, but when he arrived he found it just as empty as the streets. The old sloped
roof of the station, swept up at the edges and hung with tattered paper lanterns, made the

4

The Cedar Orb
place look like a temple or shrine, and inside it was just as quiet. There were a few
wooden benches; the floor was bare, but clean. An old clock above the schedule board
ticked slowly, the only thing moving in the station. Jiro studied the schedule board,
reading the times and destinations over and over. Though they were up to date, the place
was so quiet that he fretted they had moved the station or closed it already, and he would
be left waiting. The iron bars of shuttered ticket counters frowned at him. The sun
coming in and out of the clouds made the windows glow and quickly fade again.
Finally he chose a bench and sat, his backpack between his knees. He reached
into his jacket pocket for the electronic game, but found the battery had gone dead.
Disappointed, he shoved it back in. Shafts of sunlight came and went, and he could hear
the wind in the trees and the ticking of the clock.
At last came the sound of a far away whistle. Jiro hurried through the open arches
to the station platform. Along the curve of the track the wind made the trees and the tall
bamboo sway, and the boy peered far along it – nothing. He looked at the narrow track
and he wondered if he dared jump down the little distance to the rails, touch them, put his
ear to the ground and listen for the sound of the train. Just past the track the
mountainside fell away to a deep valley, and through a gap in the trees he could see the
clouds floating below him.
Now another cloud appeared just past the far curve, but this cloud rushed towards
him quickly, and a bright, luminous eye appeared in the center as the horn blared, and as
the wind rose the black iron and bright steel of the locomotive emerged from its wreath of
steam, rounding the bend, the chrome spokes of the wheels materializing from their blur
as the fluid gallop of the driver rods slowed. Jets of steam burst from gaskets on either

5

The Cedar Orb
side of the train as a shrill whistle screeched and puffed. The locomotive coasted past
him, and Jiro could feel its weight and heat and the wind it carried, and the wind carried
the electric scent of metal and steam. Windows and portals passed by, slowing, slowing;
and then a door slid just past where he stood and stopped, the train hissing, sending out
little trails of white steam. The door opened, and the conductor leaned out and cried all
aboard. Jiro grabbed his pack and hurried up the two metal steps onto the train car.
The coach was old; there was no plastic in it, only wood and metal, and most of
the seats were empty. Jiro found a place in the back and settled in as the train began to
move again. The conductor came by, and nervously Jiro found the proper ticket in his
pockets and handed it over. After the conductor punched the ticket and wordlessly
handed it back and went on, Jiro let out a sigh, relieved and proud.
The two or three people sitting in his car disappeared as the train made the next
few stops. Jiro stared out the window at the weathered mountains, and the clacking of the
train soon put him to sleep.

He woke, sitting up anxiously and looking all around him at the empty car,
worried he had missed his stop. The train had lurched, laboring hard as it pulled up a
steep passage. Jiro settled back down, almost sure that this passage was just before his
grandfather’s village, up a very steep track and then into a tunnel. The train began to
level and pick up speed, and when the car went dark and the roar and clatter of the train
began to echo loudly in the tunnel, he let out his breath – now he was sure.

When the train emerged from the tunnel the sun seemed brighter than ever and

6

The Cedar Orb
Jiro cautiously stuck his arm out the window to feel the warm air. Something cool and
wet fell splashing onto his hand, and he drew it back, rubbing the rainwater between his
fingers. Big, fat raindrops began to fall, pocking against the metal roof of the train,
splashing the windows as Jiro looked out. The sun was wide and golden and the big
raindrops danced in the air, catching the gold color against the green of the valley below.
Pineapple rain, he thought – that’s what grandfather calls it when it rains in the sun.
He looked out over the valley below as the train winded down to it, remembering
younger days and how he had loved to visit this place. He could just see the foaming
white of a stream as it issued from the far mountainside in a waterfall, sending continuous
mists into the wind. The water collected in a pool at the bottom of the valley, and the
pool ran into many streams, dividing the land into a multitude of long islands before
drawing back together at the edge of the valley and disappearing under the earth of
another mountainside.
The valley was full of little footbridges of all colors, clusters of houses with
waterwheels that spun slowly as they caught the streams. On a hill stood a high, narrow
pagoda of many stories, standing like a watchtower, red and white and trimmed with
gold. Tall cedar trees dotted the whole valley, and clumps of them made little forests at
the edge of the watery village. Jiro smiled, excited as when he was younger. But he also
saw that the colors of the pagoda were faded, and some of the windmills and waterwheels
were tattered and still.

The train stopped at a mountain station very much like the one it had left – clean
and bare and still. Jiro stepped off the train and from the platform he watched until the

7

The Cedar Orb
train disappeared around a bend. When he turned his grandfather was standing near the
door. He was dressed in old-fashioned peasant cloths, simple and neat.
Jiro hesitated, then walked to him, a little stiffly. “Hello, grandfather,” he said.
They bowed. “Hello Jiro,” said the old man. “Have you eaten?”
Jiro looked at his pack. He had forgotten his mother’s lunch. “No,” he said.
The old man nodded. “Come along then,” he said.
Together they picked their way down the steep, rocky path from the station to the
valley. The brief rain had stopped, and the air was cool and clean. The two stopped at
the middle of the first bridge to look along the stream. This was where the many streams
of the valley converged, and so this was where the waters were widest. They looked
along the length of it as the sun glittered on the surface and as the light films of rain
caught by the leaves drew into large, bright drops to fall into the river with a splash. A
few green leaves knocked down by the winds sailed by in the current.
This was the last bridge to cross going from the village to the station, and after
each visit his grandfather would walk with the family towards the station. They would
stop here and say their goodbyes, and his grandfather would go no further.
They had stopped now. After a certain quiet time, they went on.

The old man and the boy passed the houses with the waterwheels, and others with
windmills, and soon they came to the main street of the village. Jiro remembered that
when he was very young the street was full of shops and vendors selling food, the smell
of roasted meat and candied nuts was always in the air, and the sound of hammers and
saws and shouts made it difficult to talk. The village was once thick with travelers from

8

The Cedar Orb
all over the world, who would come to buy things from the famous woodcarvers – tables
and chairs, statues, model ships, children’s toys of every design, all carved from the
native cedar. The sharp tang of cedar wood pervaded everything. Now all that was left
was a faint scent, and sawdust in the corners.
Just off the main street was his grandfather’s workshop, which was also his house,
as was the case with most of the woodcarvers. Past the clutter of the showroom, and the
rolled-up tattami mat where he slept, the old man lit a fire in the kitchen and began to
warm the cold food. He told the boy that there was only what he had left from breakfast,
and after a few moments there was again the steam of rice porridge and the smell of fried
eggs. Jiro sat at the table and ate.
His grandfather sat and watched him eat for a few moments. “Jiro,” he said, “I
think you are old enough for wine.” He set out two small cups and brought out a dusty
bottle of deep blue glass. He poured out equal measures of a clear liquid, the palest of
gold. The boy tasted it cautiously. It was very sweet on his tongue and the liquor made
his head light.
“What do you think?” said grandfather.
“It’s good,” the boy said. “And sweet.”
His grandfather smiled. “Close your eyes when you drink.”
The boy did so. This time the sweetness passed and he could taste the plums
behind it.
“Tell me what you see,” said grandfather.
The boy opened his eyes, confused.
“Go on,” said the old man. “Try.”

9

The Cedar Orb
At first Jiro could think only of the plums. Then the thought of plum trees came
to him, and then their delicate branches against the sky, and then their white flowers, and
then the scent of rain and wet earth. He told his grandfather, without opening his eyes,
and he could feel him smile. “Take another drink, Jiro,” he said. Again Jiro tasted the
wine, and now he thought of his family – his mother and father and brother and
grandfather, and for the first time in a long while his grandmother as well. He told his
grandfather this and opened his eyes. The old man was nodding. He rose slowly, taking
up the blue glass bottle. “When you were very young,” he said, returning the bottle to the
dark of the cupboards, “the family spent the whole day picking plums. This is the wine
from those plums.” He sat down again and took up his wine, closing his eyes as he
drank. “We shall visit the plum orchard today, and other places besides. And then I wish
to give you your gift.”

After they had put the dishes away they set out. The old man carried with him a
bulging satchel of worn leather and a weathered walking stick. They walked through the
remains of the town, old buildings with fading paint, a few quiet old men and women in
their gardens, tending the fish of weedy ponds.
They crossed a bridge and through the grove of plum trees, dripping with rain,
and beyond it the little forests of cedar trees which for so long had served the
woodcutters, and the cedar scent filled the damp air. As they walked the boy asked the
old man if he had lived here his whole life. The old man shook his head. “No,” he said.
“I went to work at a factory, after the war, and so I lived in the city, as you do. It was
many years before I came back here, and many more before I learned to carve.”

10

The Cedar Orb
The trees began to thin as the ground rose to meet the mountainside, and the two
came to an empty green meadow where the red and white pagoda tower appeared
suddenly as they cleared the forest. In silence they climbed the spiral stairs and at the top
they looked out over the whole valley. The wind was cool and wet.
The old man said, “See where the streams issue; follow their course.”
The boy set his eyes against the threads of the current and saw the far waterfall
against the northern mountainside. He thought he could see a flash of red and gold
through the green of the forest.
“It is far,” said the old man. “It will take most of the afternoon to walk there and
back again.”
When they set out the boy offered to carry the satchel; the old man thanked him
but said it was not yet time. They followed a dark stream through the forest, and by the
time they heard the sound of the waterfall the sun was already slanting away in the west.
At the place of the waterfall the forest came right to the mountainside, and up the rocky
face there was a temple built straight into the mountain. Just above the curving red roof
trimmed with gold was a natural stone shelf, and it was over this that the stream issued
from the rock. The water broke against the shelf and poured over it in a sheet in front of
the temple, causing the image of the temple to blur and waver behind the sheet of flowing
water, as though it were underwater. The water also poured around either side, the twin
falls rushing down to collect into a single large pool that began the stream they had
followed through the woods. The pool was very deep, and despite the flow of the water it
became very still as it spread out. In the pool, the reflection of the temple above seemed
more steady than the temple under the fall itself, as though somehow the waters brought

11

The Cedar Orb
the image back together.
The old man and the boy climbed the steep, slippery steps, rough-hewn from the
mountain, slick with spray and seeping water. They passed through the waterfall to the
temple by means of a narrow, swaying bridge woven of leather and rope and planks of
wood, shielded from the falling water by thin bamboo slats. The temple face was open to
the falling water; it had no doors, its pillars stood exposed. It was carved deep into the
mountainside, and as they went further in, it became very dark, lit only with flickering oil
lamps. A thin sheen of cold water covered the polished marble floor; the old man stood
over it in his raised wooden sandals. The temple became very quiet. The rushing of the
water seemed to enclose the space, but did not invade. The boy could hear the pulse of
the water flowing outside, and also the echoes of individual drops falling in the darkness.
The altar was plain, without ornament – not even a golden Buddha statue so
common in shrines, as though the place were older even than his coming. Engraved in
the granite just above the flame in the center of the altar was a single glyph, a primitive
character for home and family. On either side were bundles of incense in jade urns. The
old man took one slender stick from each and lit them at the flame of the altar. They
sputtered and lit, and he blew out the brief flame and breathed softly on the ember tips,
the smoke trailing in the air, uncoiling, filling the space with the fragrance of cedar and
plum and jasmine. He bowed three times, quickly, holding the sticks of incense, and
spoke softly. He was quiet and set the burning sticks into the brass holder at the altar.
The boy stood beside him. He shifted his feet, the cold water seeping into his
tennis shoes. The old man spoke, gazing at the flame. “I come here to speak with them.
My grandfather. My father and mother. Your grandmother.”

12

The Cedar Orb
They stood quietly.
“But,” said the boy, “they’re dead.”
The old man nodded. “Yes. All the more important to talk with them.”
The boy looked up at his grandfather, who still looked at the flame. “Do they talk
back,” he asked.
“Oh yes,” said the old man. “They have much to say.” He looked down at the
boy. “Would you like to try? I know it has been some time since you last spoke to
grandmother.”
The boy nodded and did as his grandfather had done, lighting the incense,
bowing. They stood in silence, with only the sound of the water and the wind and the
flame. The boy began to shuffle his feet again.
“It’s all right,” said the old man. “It is hard, I know. It is as though they are very
far away, and their voices are very small. But that is not quite so, though seems that
way. It is that their voices have gotten very big, and yet fine – in the water, in the wind,
in the quiet. It is our voices, and our ears, that are small.” He turned to the boy. “They
find it difficult to talk to us as well. That is why we have places like this. To make it
easier.” He looked back at the flame. “Even so, it takes a great deal of practice. Do not
be discouraged.”
The boy nodded. They stood there a while longer.

When they had left the shrine and climbed down the steps, the sun was much
lower in the west. They set a brisk pace through the long shadows in the woods towards
the village. At grandfather’s house Jiro quickly gathered his things and they left for the

13

The Cedar Orb
train station.
Just before they crossed the last bridge they stopped by an abandoned house near
the stream, its weathered waterwheel still turning idly with the current. They sat under a
great willow tree, its slender branches dipping into the water, making little golden ripples
in the late sun.
“I wish to give you your gift,” said the old man, and as he stood he undid the
latches on his satchel. He produced from the leather bag a cedar orb, perfectly round,
perhaps a little larger than a soccer ball. The surface was smooth, dark, and polished.
Running along its circumference, like a brass equator, was a narrow metal band; at two
equidistant points there were burnished brass latches, one the face of a tiger, the other
that of a dragon. Holding the orb in one hand, the old man unclasped the latches with the
other. He looked at the boy. “Now sit,” he said, “as a lotus flower, facing the west.”
The boy did as he was told, and the old man placed the orb on his lap. He gave the upper
hemisphere a slight turn, clockwise, and lifted it up.
Underneath was a crystal dome, and within the dome a replica of the entire
valley. Finely carved mountains lined the circumference; detailed trees covered the
valley floor. The little windmills of the model town caught the rays of the fading sun and
began to turn. A few moments later, water began to seep out of the rocks, making a
waterfall over the mountain shrine and filling the dry streambeds. The waterwheels
began to turn. The boy looked at the miniature pagoda tower, the grove of plum trees
with white flowers. The orb vibrated softly; a tiny train issued from the mouth of the
tunnel, puffing steam.
The boy’s eyes were lit with wonder. “Grandfather,” he asked, “did you make

14

The Cedar Orb
this?”
The old man shook his head. “No. This is far beyond even my skill.” He too
gazed into the depths of the orb. “When my grandfather gave it to me, he said the same.
He gave me the orb when I left to work in the city, after the war. It was many years
before I returned. Many nights I would stare at it, and wonder what my life would have
been like, if I had stayed.”
The boy looked up at his grandfather, and then back to the orb. “Do you...” he
began, and stopped. He looked up again. “But it’s too much. Why didn’t you give this
to father? Or Taro? He’s the oldest.”
The old man smiled. “They have their gifts. This is yours.” He sighed. “It is too
early to say. But maybe I can give you an idea. Am I the same to you as your father?”
“No.”
“And you are not the same to me as your father. Certain things require more time
than others. Certain things must be forgotten, so that they may be remembered.” The old
man looked at the boy. “Do you understand?”
The boy nodded.
The old man continued. “It is different also with Taro,” he said. He leaned down
to touch his grandson’s shoulder. “You see, I was “Jiro” too – the secondborn. It is not
the same. I know this is too soon for you to know. But when you have children, you will
know. The firstborn brings excitement, for all things are made new. It is like the first
bite of young plums. The secondborn is not like that. But it brings its own gift, a fullness
that the first cannot. It is like wine. So it is also with grandchildren, to see your own
child with his own child. That is why the orb is yours: you are my grandchild, and you

15

The Cedar Orb
are the secondborn. You will understand.”
The boy looked at his grandfather, a little sadly. “Do you want someone to stay,”
he asked.
The old man shook his head. “I want someone to remember.”
The boy nodded, and again looked into the orb. He saw the miniature mountains
and rivers and bridges, and the plum grove and the pagoda, and the forest and the temple.
He saw the little village, each house carved in great detail. And on the outskirts of the
village he saw a miniature house with a waterwheel and a willow tree.
Underneath the tree there was the figure of a boy. He was sitting as a lotus, and near him
stood an old man. In the boy’s lap there was a tiny cedar orb, bound with brass, one clasp
the head of a dragon, the other that of a tiger.
* * *
In the dark of the morning, with just a touch of gray in the sky, an old man sat
alone in the little apartment, the city lights glittering outside. The kitchen was filled with
the smell of frying eggs, and the steam of tea. The old man sat at a small table. On the
table, resting in his hands, was a cedar orb, a lamp shedding light on the windmills and
the trees, and the little train steaming around the curve of the track.
The old man’s eyes were full of tears, and yet he was also smiling. He was
waiting for his grandson to visit, who lived very far away.

END

16


