I'd already been sleeping in the synagogue for a few weeks when I encountered
Hubert Collins and his grandson hard at work on the carpeted staircase.
Hubert, 64 and still working six days a week, had made a success out of one of
those businesses where an eighth grade education is no bar to earning a decent living.
He’d been cleaning the carpets in our house for years when I hired him to do the same
thing at Bet Shalom in Good Harbor. Twice a year he came to the synagogue hauling
many pounds of bulky steam cleaners, along with plastic bottles of stain remover. I know
cleaning—my company provides office services (decorating, fresh flowers, painting,
cleaning) for Manhattan commercial tenants, and Hubert is good: prompt, thorough,
careful. He likes to be paid about a minute after finishing a job, but who can blame him?
After all, he’s not the kind of guy to send you a bill generated by QuickBooks.
He was of that older generation of black men, born before the war, who wear their
dignity like a uniform, always in order, never soiled or ill-fitting, men who have no need to
be provocative or angry because they have already surmounted all the slights and
condescension, the insults, curses and violence that white society can throw their way.
They thumb their noses at that society every day by dint of their proud independence.
Eight or nine years ago Hubert took in his grandson, Smitty, when his daughter abruptly
moved to Atlanta to live with an old boyfriend. For Smitty, growing up with Hubert has
been tough-love boot-camp; weekends and most days after school, the boy cleaned carpets
with his grandfather.
As president of the synagogue I’m there a lot: Friday night and Saturday services,
Tuesday night executive committee, a Wednesday sit-down with the rabbi. It was on one
of those Wednesday afternoons that Hubert and Smitty showed up to perform our semiannual cleaning. By then sleeping in the synagogue had become my routine─I don't mean
sleeping just during the sermon, but all night, every night.
“Afternoon, Mr. Rivkin,” Hubert said.
“Good afternoon, Mr. Collins. Afternoon, Smitty.”
Smitty was a gangly 15-year old, tall enough to be a college forward, skinny as a

1

Sleeping in the Synagogue

popsicle stick. He looked at my shoes and mumbled something I couldn’t hear.
“I can’t figure the kid out,” Hubert had said to me months before. “Smart, quick
with numbers, knows computers, but won’t do a lick of homework. Here’s a kid who
could go to a good college, MIT even, but he won’t take the trouble to get the grades.
“Maybe he needs to find something he’s really interested in,” I said. “Then he’ll
apply himself.”
“The way I see it, he needs to apply himself first. If you’ve got a carpet to clean,
no use standing around waiting to be interested in it. Get to it. Then you’ll get interested
alright. Interested in how to do it better and faster. Interested in getting paid.”
"Another thing," he added. “He hangs around with some of the wrong kids, ones
with nothing to do but to make trouble.”
“That doesn’t sound like Smitty. You work him pretty hard.”
“Can’t watch them all the time. Not at that age."
On this day, when their cleaning was done and Hubert and Smitty were packing up
their gear, our rabbi, Danny Levinson, motioned to me from the library. “Andy, can you
give me a hand with this?” he said, pointing to the Torah scroll on the table.
The Torah was open to a passage in Exodus and needed to be rewound almost to
the end, to a chapter in Deuteronomy. Rewinding a scroll is a workout for arms and
shoulders that can take 15 minutes−including stopping from time to time to scan the
Hebrew text to see where you are, because a Torah scroll has no page or section numbers,
no periods or commas.
Danny stationed me at the Deuteronomy end of the scroll, He stood at the Genesis
end, quickly developing a rapid-fire rhythm as he skittered his roller toward me, tightened
the scroll, pulled, then stretched his arms toward me again and again, pulling and rolling.
While the rabbi and I rolled the Torah, Smitty watched from the library entrance.
“What’s that?” His words were high-pitched, squeaky, as if his vocal cords had
some stretching to do in order to catch up with his height.
“The Torah,” the rabbi said, “the Old Testament. Come have a look. Every letter is
written by hand.”
“By hand, wow. How long did it take you to write it?”
2

Sleeping in the Synagogue

“Not me. It takes an expert, a scribe called a sofer, a year to do it.”
“A whole year? How much does that cost?”
Danny smiled. “How much would you want to get paid, if you spent an entire year
making just one thing?” Answer a question with a question: is that part of the training in
rabbinical school, or does it just come naturally to them?
“A lot,” Smitty said.
****
It was early October, just after the holidays, when I moved into the synagogue.
That first morning was disorienting. You know how it is to open your eyes at dawn and
not remember where you are? Those fleeting minutes of gray when everything around
you—the bedsheets, the door to your left and the night table by your side—has that
insubstantial, dreamlike quality? You roll your eyes this way and that, trying to decipher
the contours of the room. And then it comes to you: no, this is not my bedroom, I’m on
vacation in Amsterdam or I’m in my son's apartment in West LA. In my case, I awoke not
in a strange sofa bed with the springs poking aggressively at my spine, but in the little
ante-chamber to the rabbi’s study, on the second floor of Bet Shalom in our peaceful
Westchester suburb.
We were already in a spell of crisp autumn nights. In underwear and socks I'd
paddle to the second floor window in time to see the sun just breaking free of the lid of the
horizon. The play of golden light and dark green pine needles brought a gasp to my lips.
There was a row of white pines at the edge of the synagogue grounds, their long graceful
limbs swooping low to the grounds, like the outstretched legs of a ballerina. With my
forehead half an inch from the window pane, I could feel the mass of cool air pressing
from the outside, knowing it was only a matter of time before the sun would heat the air
under the roof and warm the glass. It was coming, the warmth of this fall morning; soon
the blue of the sky would be enough to take your breath away.
Perhaps it was destiny that I wound up here. I put the house up for sale, as agreed,
once Antonia and I had each signed the final divorce papers. I didn’t expect a quick sale;
the housing market was glum and getting glummer. Yet within a week my broker, Mary
Alice Riley, brought over a buyer, an executive relocating to New York who saw the house
3

Sleeping in the Synagogue

at 2 p.m. and made a full-price, cash offer at six. The only condition, non-negotiable, was
that we close in three days.
“Impossible,” I said to Mary Alice. How could I disassemble a 3300-square foot
house full of furniture, knickknacks, house plants, photos and memories in three days?
“Andy, he’s paying Asking Price,” Mary Alice thundered, implying that to turn it
down would be a desecration, like using the Shroud of Turin to scrub the kitchen floor.
“You have to take it. Don't worry, I'll help you get the house ready."
I took it.
That night I called Becky, my oldest daughter, to tell her the news.
“Oh daddy, that’s wonderful.” It always amazed me how little attachment my three
children have to the house where they grew up. Becky was living in Raleigh with a boyfriend.
When she heard I had to move out in three days, she invited me to come and stay with them.
"For a week or so," she quickly added. "You know, to relax and get your bearings."
“Thanks, but I have a business to run, remember?”
More than ever it was important to make that business pay. The agreement with
Antonia gave her the lion’s share of the proceeds from the house sale, once the mortgage
had been paid off. In return I got to keep the business free and clear, but that only made
sense if I could wring some profit out of it.
When I got into the office services business 20 years ago, I didn’t make a ton of
money, but I did fine. A guy like me who is presentable and knows how to talk to building
managers and owners could get new clients and watch the business grow.
Now the field is crowded with newcomers, many of them immigrants who hire
other immigrants. I have to hustle just to keep the existing customers, and when a company
threatens to leave because someone underbids me by six percent, what choice is there but
to match the price?
To clear out the house, Mary Alice found me one of those organize-your-life ladies,
expert in managing what to keep, sell, donate. She helped me hire movers with gentle hands
to wrap and pack the remaining furniture, dishes, lamps, throw pillows. paintings and
papers, much of it headed for storage. On closing day the house was empty, spotless. I
turned over the keys, collected a check and wired Antonia her share.
4

Sleeping in the Synagogue

*****
I could have moved into the nearby national chain motel with its blond furniture
assembled from some composite non-quite-wood material, its Gideon Bible in the night table,
its mass-produced still-life print (a pear, an apple, a cluster of purple grapes) over the bed.
Besides being depressed by the décor, I would have had to fork over $139 per night. As if to
reinforce my money worries, the day of the closing a client in the financial district, Broad &
Wall Realty, said they were considering a lower price from a competitor. They’d been with
me for 14 years.
A cousin on the Upper West Side offered me his guest room, but then I thought of
Bet Shalom. There was something so appealing about its anonymity—not to mention the
deliciously illicit feeling of being there in secret and invisible.
When I first moved in I was afraid to sleep too soundly. The Torah scrolls are
insured, as are the furnishings, the kitchen appliances and dishes and cutlery, the books in
the library, the office equipment. The building has fire and smoke detectors, sprinklers.
Still, I felt I was the flesh and blood defense against accidents, fire and assaults. Every
noise shot me awake—the refrigerator compressor, the dull ring of acorns skittering down
the roof, wind gusts that shook the window panes and set curtains quivering.
But after a few nights a soothing calm set in. I’m not a spiritual person, whatever that
means. To be synagogue president you don’t need a deep knowledge of Torah. You need to
motivate congregants to volunteer for dozens of humdrum but essential tasks—babysitting on
the High Holidays, arranging food for after services, seeing that enough people show up
during the seven-day shiva period to comfort mourners, getting the leaks fixed, the bills paid,
the dues collected. And you need to coddle, encourage−and occasionally overrule−the rabbi
as he goes about his multi-faceted and demanding job.
Spiritual, no, yet once I got over my initial anxieties, those nights upstairs in a
house of worship were restorative. Before lights out I read, or else lay there quietly,
humming the refrain from a Shabbat melody, planning a new life. Night after night I slept
without waking. When I had dreams, they were sunny—picnics by a meandering stream, a
July outing to the old Yankee Stadium, a glorious coming graduation day for my youngest
daughter, Sylvie, who’d just settled in for her last year at Penn. It wasn’t closeness to God
5

Sleeping in the Synagogue

that I experienced—neither synagogue attendance nor my presidential duties have worn
away my inbred agnosticism—so much as a feeling of being sheltered. Unencumbered
and at peace, that was my secret nocturnal life at Bet Shalom.
Peace was what I craved. I didn’t find out about Antonia’s affair with Harmon, a
partner in her law firm, until after it ended. For weeks I couldn’t look at her without the
pain in my chest erupting into incoherent rage. The recriminations, fighting, tears, apologies
and frigid silences went on and on until divorce was the only way out.
It was also a relief to be rid of the house. I liked the idea of living with no possessions
except the gym bag that held my changes of clothing and toiletries, the briefcase with the
laptop and office papers. In the morning I folded up my sheet and blanket, deflated my pillow
and stored them at the bottom of a supply closet, in one of those plastic containers with a
lock-down cover, Then I paddled down the hall to the upstairs bathroom and its spacious
tiled shower, a thoughtful, if costly extra, installed when we did a synagogue renovation
several years ago. Who knew that I'd be the beneficiary?
A few people figured out what I was doing. Early mornings I'd sometimes run into
our custodian Evgeny, a tall fellow with coarse yellow hair and a high forehead. He’d
be noisily scrubbing pots, stacking dishes and cutlery for the dishwasher.
“Hello Mr. Rivkin,” Evgeny said in his formal way.
“Morning, Evgeny.”
He never asked why I was there, but Evgeny misses nothing; my red and gray gym
bag told him all he needed to know.
A few days later I spotted Howard Gold getting out of his car in the parking lot.
Even before I saw his face I knew it was him from the way he swung his left foot, the
artificial one, up over the lip of the car door frame before setting it down on the blacktop,
manipulating it with the painstaking precision of a crane operator.
His face opened in that dazzling smile that served him well during a dozen years as
president. I never thought he’d give up that job but he’s got health problems, serious ones.
“Andy, how are you?” he said. “What a morning, isn’t it?”
He’d come to Bet Shalom to drop off a check and wound up driving me to the
station, saving me the walk. Howard knew about the divorce and as he waited in the car
6

Sleeping in the Synagogue

with me for the New York-bound train. he asked how I was doing. Then he mentioned how
crazy it was for him, a widower, to be all alone in a sprawling house.
“Why not stay at my place for a while? You’ll have your own bathroom, you can
come and go on your own schedule. Of course, if you want company”—and here he gave
me a sly look that was nothing like his usual thousand-watt smile—“we can go out at night
and chase women together.”
I burst out laughing at the sheer incongruity of 72-year old Howard, gimping
around on that artificial foot and tossing off pickup lines at some singles bar.
“Howard, you’re a riot,” I said, as the train rumbled to a stop. “And thanks for the
lift.”
As we rolled toward the city I considered his offer. He’d be an easy host, but
honestly I preferred my upstairs couch, the way the threads of my life fit snugly into that
gym bag, the peaceful oblivion that came over me every night when I shut off the light. At
work I was finding a new focus. That morning I went out hustling for business, a new 41story skyscraper in midtown where I knew the managing agent. Then I visited the Broad &
Wall people and offered them a five percent reduction
“It’s the best I can do,” I said. “I can’t work for nothing.” Said it with the broadest
smile I could muster, a la Howard Gold.
*****
The sound of breaking class was the last thing I expected to hear. Good Harbor
was a friendly place, with neighbors who greeted you cordially and shopkeepers who knew
your name.
There’d been plenty of anti-Semitism here in the old days. In the 40s and 50s it
had taken the form of realtors not showing houses to Jews, just saying blatantly and
without shame, “I don’t think that’s the right neighborhood for you people.” But times had
changed. Anti-discrimination laws had been passed. The people who didn’t want Jews
living next door watched their law firms take in Jewish associates and then Jewish
partners; saw their kids come home from Amherst or Wellesley with Jewish friends.
Anti-Semitism was still there but it had become muted, had gone underground.
When I heard the synagogue window shattering, I first imagined that this was the
7

Sleeping in the Synagogue

sound track of a dream featuring a car crash or an angry husband throwing dishes. The
immediacy of the noise, like a thunderclap that disturbs the drowsy late summer afternoon,
told me this was no dream. My next thought was, Here they come, neo-Nazi skinheads out
to break things, spray swastikas. I groped in the darkness for the nylon sweat pants and the
tea-stained sweatshirt, making the sleep-fogged mistake of inserting both sets of toes and
knees into the same right pants leg, and then, when I got untangled, the further mistake of
putting the sweat shirt on backwards so that the clothing tag that said “Machine Wash
Warm Tumble Dry Low Do Not Iron” (who irons a sweat shirt, anyway?) brushed the tip
of my nose as the sweat shirt settled, wrong side facing out, on my neck and shoulders.
There was no time to take it off and put it on right; young male voices were
spiraling up the staircase.
“’Fuck you doin’, man, you sure you know where we goin’?” This was a deep but
young voice, belonging to a 16 or 17-year old.
“Relax, man. I know the way.” This voice was younger, high-pitched, almost
squeaky.
“Way to what?”
“To where they’re at.” And then the voice continued, “Those Torahs, man.”
Though the younger voice sounded familiar, I couldn’t quite place it. Not that I was
still groggy; I’d never been more awake than in the panic of this moment, poised on the
top step, as the blackness of the interior dissolved into recognizable, if oddly positioned
shapes, the broad curving banister, the wide stairs with the carpeting worn a bit at the
intersection of the treads and risers.
Now a third male voice, gruffly menacing, said “Fuck you think it’s for?
Motherfucker try to mess with our shit, I’m a take care of that motherfucker.”
This pronouncement elicited a soothing, almost deferential plea from the oldest of
the boys for gruff to cool it. The younger one, whose high-pitched voice was familiar,
gave out a yelp and told gruff, put it away, don’t be a fool.
What was it? A blackjack? A gun? The dialog froze me. I tiptoed to the rabbi’s
study. Here, in the cool darkness, surrounded by shelves of Hebrew dictionaries, a book
entitled “Can Judaism Survive America” and some 45 over-sized volumes of Talmud in
8

Sleeping in the Synagogue

their red binders, I dialed 911.
As I replaced the receiver it came to me, the owner of the squeaky voice. Now I
charged downstairs shouting “Who’s there, who’s there?” a silly question better directed to
a stranger ringing the doorbell than to this trio of intruders.
Just inside the door to the sanctuary I paused. Near the pulpit I could make out the
wavering orbit of a tiny flashlight and three teenagers in an awkward dance with a pair of
Torah scrolls; they looked like would-be running backs practicing a handoff. They’d broken
the wide picture window on the east side of the sanctuary, leaving a scattering of jagged
hunks of glass along the carpet to the right of the pews. I recognized Smitty’s silhouette; he
was the tallest of the three and the way he was cradling one of the scrolls in his arms
suggested solicitude for his cargo that belied the affront of the break-in.
“Smitty, what are you doing? Put it down now before you get into trouble.”
He looked at me, dumfounded to hear me address him by name.
“Motherfucker, what the fuck?” That was the gruff-voiced one, a stocky fellow in
a black T shirt; there was a flash of gold from a chain around his neck. He seemed startled
by the lights as I switched them on. He turned toward me, clutching a knife, but he had the
unfocused look of someone without his distance glasses. I thought of bolting to the
kitchen, to take shelter behind the pantry door, when I heard the whine of a police siren as
two squad cars pulled up outside the front door of Bet Shalom.
“Sheeet. Motherfucker called the fucking cops.” And then the gruff one took a step
in my direction.
His were the last words I heard clearly. I tried to run, got tangled up in a folding
chair that was askew along the aisle and pitched head-first into the door jamb. There was
no slash of a knife, no sudden fountain of blood; instead I lost consciousness. I don’t know
how many minutes passed before two policemen, one in his fifties, the other looking barely
30, were standing over me, wondering what I was doing there. There was a stinging in my
nose as agonizing as if someone had rammed a fistful of ice crystals up my nostrils.
“Is he some kind of night watchman?” one of them theorized.
I explained who I was, each word causing the cartilage in my nostrils to quiver in
pain. The younger cop, perplexed, said, “You’re the president and you have to sleep here
9

Sleeping in the Synagogue

to guard the place?”
“It’s just temporary. It’s a long story.”
The two Torah scrolls were unharmed; Smitty had laid them down gently on the
pulpit when the cops arrived. The teens had been cuffed and bundled into the back seat of
a squad car. I ran outside and asked to talk to them.
“I know one of these kids, he’s a good kid, a hard worker,” I said. “Let me get his
grandpa down here. He’ll be a hell of a lot tougher than any judge. Look, they’re all
teens, you know what juvenile court is like.”
“It’s not procedure,” the sergeant in charge said. “Besides, what about the damage
to the building, broken windows, whatever else they did?”
“Please, officer, can we just make the call,” I pleaded.
I found the number and the sergeant called Hubert.
It barely took eight minutes before he was getting out of his van. “What’d they do?”
he wanted to know. I showed him the broken glass, explained about the Torah scrolls.
He asked the officer for a minute with his grandson. One of the cops brought him out
of the squad car, hands cuffed behind him. Hubert seized him by the shoulder; I could see
how strong he was from the yelp that escaped Smitty’s lips. The boy’s shoulder blades
clicked like an old-fashioned car door button being locked, a heavy, definitive sound.
When he was done talking to Smitty, Hubert gave an update to the sergeant.
“First thing, we’re going to clean up this mess, get this window fixed. It’ll be done
by this afternoon, guaranteed. Smitty’s going to pay for it, every last cent. After that,
these three boys going to do community service. The garage outside the temple needs
painting, they going to do that. Then, every Saturday for the next three months they going
to show up at the police station and you can put them to work, any job in town, the
schools, the hospital, whatever. I’m going to deliver them myself.”
When I said the synagogue would not press charges, the sergeant sighed, and took
the boys’ names and addresses. He said he’d still need an okay from the police chief in the
morning; otherwise they’d have to be booked.
Hubert looked at me. “Mr. Rivkin, that nose is swelled up pretty bad. Broken, I’d say.”
“I guess.” By now my voice was so muffled I couldn’t hear my own words. We
10

Sleeping in the Synagogue

locked up the synagogue as best we could, and Hubert said he’d be back in a little while
with plywood as a temporary fix. Then he installed me in the front of the van with Smitty
and his comrades in back, all three of them silent and shaken, and drove me to the hospital.
On the way, Smitty apologized to me. “I looked up what a Torah goes for, and
thought we’d make a lot of money,” he said, sniffling, overcome with remorse.
True, a used scroll could bring as much as $10,000 to $15,000, but I doubted he’d
ever figured out how he was going to find a buyer.
“Dumbest thing I’ve ever done,” Smitty added.
Then he asked, “What were you doing in the synagogue? You live there now?”
“No more, I’m moving out.”
Time to look for an apartment; for now I'd go to Howard’s or my cousin’s—
anywhere but the motel with the Gideon’s Bible and the still-life of the apple, the pear and
the grapes.
“Lucky for you he was there,” Hubert said to the boys. “Damn lucky.”
I got my nose looked at—“broken, it’ll heal,” the doctor said—took a pain killer and
came back to my second-floor berth outside the rabbi’s study for the last time. It was far
from a tranquil night. I kept bolting up, recalling the glass shattering, imagining intruders
−and then hearing the echo of Hubert Collins. For weeks this house of worship had been as
soothing to me as a warm bath. But tonight it was as if Jeremiah had stepped out of the
pages of the Old Testament, because Hubert’s was the voice of a prophet, a deep rumble
tinged with sadness and anger, laying down the law to those boys. He’d told his grandson
he was lucky that I’d been sleeping in the synagogue. The way I saw it, Smitty was even
luckier to have Hubert Collins for a grandpa.

11


