Look, said Dick.
See the red wagon.
See it go.
Jane said, Oh, look!
It goes fast.

Just like that it comes to me, a flashback to gramps reading Dick and Jane out loud to my
little sister, about a red wagon—a red wagon so unlike the red VW red wagon transfixing me as I
stare at it, parked on a red-brick street in front of this red-brick house with a yard sign that reads,
‘Black Lives Matter.’ It’s autumn and color’s everywhere. The street’s lined with maples and
their leaves are peaking—canary, caramel, crimson—and falling in heaps I’m dragging my
salmon sneakers through. The sun, gleaming off the brilliant red body paint of the auto, does a
dappled dance. Trapped in wonder, standing, I observe a woman on the porch swing, in her 30s,
with a high-top buzz cut and wide-eyed reading glasses. I gesture with an open hand, then ask,
“Is that your red car?”
“Yes,” she says, and turns back to her story. She’s reading a book, Lampedusa’s The
Leopard, I think.
I can’t help myself. “It’s beautiful,” I say.
“What my mom said. That’s why I bought it.”
“In Italy, at least in Torino where they make Fiats, they believe cars can be beautiful. My
car’s not beautiful.”
“Get rid of it,” she says, and turns another page.
“Bellissima, la macchina,” I offer, before giving a farewell wave.

1

I drive my ugly car to the Volkswagon dealer and trade it in as down payment on a new
Jetta GLI 2.0, with a turbo-charged fuel-injection 228 horsepower engine. It’s equipped with a 7speed stick shift, does 0-60 mph in less than 6 seconds and—what’s more— it’s candy apple red.
I steer my beautiful car, road-ready, to I-85 and race back and forth between Coralville and
Cedar Rapids until five o’clock traffic breaks my stride. I turn off at the North Liberty exit and
meander crooked county roads, avoiding the mud ones with their splatter. When I change gears, I
embrace the engine surge, reaching sonic speeds in record time. Sometimes I become Captain
Chuck Yeager breaking the sound barrier in his Bell X-1. Other times I just enjoy the blood rush
that zips through me when I punch down the pedal and the car leaps forward, like a red roan
mare. In-town driving’s a hoot, threading through all the gears, 1-2-3, sometimes 4-5-6, with a
steady Zorro-Z twist of the wrist. The obsidian dashboard radiates a cardinal color line from the
interior lighting bands surrounding the instruments, a tonic to the eye. At stop lights, the glow of
the go-light makes me feel celestial, as if I were Hermes waiting before a heavenly gate to speeddeliver a message. That’s when a honk from a disgruntled Wonder Bread driver causes me to
shift into first and bust into another reverie.

My lady friend likes the car. Why not? It’s bright, sporty, and you can roll back the top.
Carmine and I are going for a country drive today to enjoy this native summer October
afternoon. As I fire up the motor in her parking lot, she’s bouncing in the front passenger seat,
ogling all the buttons, searching. “Halford! There it is,” she exclaims, depressing a maroon knob
that opens the roof. Immediately, she shouts out the window, “See you, Julie!” waving her left-

2

hand, then her right-, out the roof. Julie gives us a high five from the balcony, hunkered behind
her laptop.
“Too bad Julie can’t join us. I ‘ve got two quarts of ice cream, hand-made, from Haines
Dairy, for our taste treat.” I give Carmine a pat and imagine the creamy velvet textures and full
fruit flavors we have in store.
“Julie’s cramming for her Comps. I should, too, but your ride calls. Plus, the ice cream.
You get my Cherry Jerry?”
“Yeah, and Raspberry Ripple for me. In the back seat, double-bagged. Let’s roll!”

It’s sixty degrees and the sun’s pouring in from all sides, warming the car, despite the
scattered clouds and the steady breeze that marks the edge of the prairie. Carmine has her red
bandana tied to the rearview mirror, letting it flap in the air like a team flag. “You ever been to
the River Junction Access?” I ask.
“Float your boat, right?” As Carmine says this, she gives a swing to the big red dice
dangling over the dashboard.
“A ramp to the Iowa River—fishing and a campground. A walk along the bank we can
take.” Carmine snuggles in her seat, lets loose a big smile, and begins to doze as I begin to
chatter, sometimes to myself, since she’s headed for Slumber City.
“I’m taking Sand Road to the Hills turnoff, hanging a left at Lone Tree, right before the
access. This scenery—a picture postcard—red barns, and black angus eating grass. That corn’s
straw-gray, ready to harvest. These fields are flipping by, like a kid’s snap book—you look
asleep. What the hay?” I slap the steering wheel, with its elliptical shape. “Halloween’s coming
and my car’s not even been scared. Time to dare-devil. Like Takuma Sato said, ‘no attack, no

3

chance.’ How else did Taku win the Indy 500 twice? I ask you that!” Carmine says nothing, just
emits a little burble. “At the next four-way I’m ramming my foot to floor, flying through the
crossing—The Big Engine That Could. Ha! Here goes…. Rocketing through another
intersection….And another. Piece of cake. Its’s a chariot ride, another world record, one for the
Guinness book. This next crossroad’s a kidney punch, tall corn on all sides, up to the stop signs.
Dammit! I’m zooming through…. Oink! That hay wagon dinged me, round bales hitting the
ditch. Tractor’s a Red! An old Massey-Ferguson. Farmer’s OK except his seed cap’s snagged on
my antenna. DeKalb, it says. He’s in my mirror, shaking a shoe…”
Carmine startles awake. “Why you babbling? What banged us?”
“Nothing. Tamu got a red flag at the Indianapolis 500.” I grip the steering wheel and do
some quick isometrics.
“Huh?” she says and rubs her eyes.
“Hay wagon lost some bales. Farmer had to retire the track. See the feeder road up ahead
and the campground sign? That’s the entrance to the access.”

Halford avoids the lumpy gravel parking area, instead settling his new red car on a patch
of cut green grass, dry and away from the river. But, he thinks, too close to the squash-shaped
camper trailers and the heavy semi-size RVs ringing the pit toilet sheds that perfume the air. He
realizes he has no wish to exclaim with his fellow travelers about their fabulous catch or their
incredible gas mileage. He just wants to down ice cream at a picnic table with Carmine and
watch his new red car. He hopes that all the others, gathered as they are at the access, turn from
their weenie roasts and tiny TVs to study his bella macchina. When they compliment him, he

4

will say, “Golly, thanks. Yup, fresh off the lot. Runs like a red coyote.” He can’t, though,
because it starts to rain.
“What about the hike along the river? What about our ice cream?” Carmine pouts.
“It’s pouring. No walk. Still, we can ‘gobble the glace,’ to coin a French phrase.”
“How? That picnic table’s soaking. There’s no shelter.” Her lower lip pushes out more.
“ No worries. We nest like two hungry robin redbreasts in my abiding back seat.”
“Halford, that’s a yummy idea.” With that, she manages to climb over and between the
front seats, always avoiding the gear shift and the I-phone cable. At the apex of her mount, she
goes loose, dropping her bottom on the carpeted axle bar. “Ouch!” I do the same. It’s a squeeze,
since both of us show the effects of our ongoing addiction to butter fat. We become entwined,
looking like a multi-armed, multi-legged—plump— Hindi Durga.
“We can’t move,” I announce. “Out of the rain, though.”
“You’re squishing my lap.” Carmine starts to make ringlets of my scraggly hair with her
far hand, as the wind gently sways the car. Without warning, she rotates my head and plants a
rainy kiss on my eyebrows. I try to move next to her, like on a davenport. But there’s no wiggle
room. Her palm brushes my Johnson but there’s no wiggle there, either.
“We’re hard-packed, like the gelato,” I say.
“Ice cream, you scream…let’s gorge!” says Carmine. I pass the tout bag to her. She pops
the lid of the Cherry Jerry. It’s melting, really melting. She jams the plastic spoon into the center,
scoops out a soft ball and begins to lick, holding the carton as it leaks all over the red-trimmed
faux leather seat, finally slipping from her hold and onto the leather, all over.
I scream: “You are fucking ruining my beautiful car!” Carmine stops gobbling but
continues to smack her lips. I grab my quart of Raspberry Ripple, throw it out the window, take

5

off my Big Lebowski sweater and mop the sopping mess. Then, wriggling away, from Carmine
and between the seats, I tumble frontward, smacking my nose on the horn, which gives a sharp
honk. Some campers stick their faces out of their tents, risking the rain to catch the tableau
vivant. They see me wrestling in the driver’s seat.
Still in back, Carmine sits, watching the downpour disintegrate my Raspberry Ripple,
sending it in rivulets to the river. She says, touching my shoulder: “Hal, it’s just ice cream.”
“Carmine, hon, I’m sorry. For me it’s about more than ice cream, it’s about an esthetic.” I
watch the sky pushing the clouds together, squeezing them dry. That song comes to me, the one
that goes something like, “I’m in the desert on a horse with no name but it’s good to be out of the
rain.” That’s true, about being out of the rain. I start the car, ooze out of the lot, weave back into
town. The Cherry Jerry smash on the back seat has caught my tongue, like a cat. I know I should
make up to Carmine, tell her it’s OK, promise we’ll go on another ice cream binge after I install
plastic seat covers. I will. But for now I need some self-care. My bright and shiny car, so young
and carefree, besmirched.

It’s Sunday afternoon and I’ve got the end-of-week-start-of-work blues times two.
Where’s the joy? It’s coming back, as I ease my car in the co-op parking lot, then stand at
attention to admire again this red roadster—jaunty, smart and fast. I’m wearing my Irish flat cap,
something that seems right for a late fall drive. I fold the cap into the pocket of my Donegal
before strolling into the co-op for some liquid essentials. Perhaps a Beaujolais Nouveau, for my
6:30 aperitive, I’m thinking, when I suddenly see, in the space one over, the red car of my porch
friend, the one who changed my life, led me to the Volkswagen dealer. Bliss gobsmacks me. I
say to the owner, who’s opening her door, “It’s me. Remember?”

6

“You’re the nutty guy who said my car’s bellissima. Not anymore.” As she speaks I see
the front left fender, the whole left side, deeply dented with white scars. I blush and get a bad
flutter.
“Your fender…” I trail off, pointing. “That will cost several thousand.”
“Yup. Money I don’t have.” She snaps her fingers.
I suddenly feel so selfish. A big baby, whining over a quart of melted Cherry Jerry—and
being mean to Carmine.
“You got a new ride,” she says, looking at my Jetta.
“Took your wise counsel,” I say.
“What are the specs?”
“GLI 2.0, turbo-charged fuel-injection, 7-speed stick.”
“Fast?”
“0 to 60 in less than 6.”
“I love fast. Yesterday I took mine out on a backroad near Solon, a two-lane blacktop.
Got it to over 100. So sweet.” With that, she socked my shoulder.
“Want to go for a spin? I know some fantastic criss-cross lanes just outside of Hills.”
“Sure!”
“By the way, you speak Italian?”

.

7

8


