I’m sitting against the flaking bole of a laurel tree, cooling down after hiking up the
mountain, when a little man drops from the canopy above. I yell something – I’m not sure what –
and scramble away, around the trunk. He lands on bandy legs and follows, chattering and waving
his little hands, lurching like he’s cramped from perching in the tree. I’m not sure if I should
laugh or run. He doesn’t look dangerous and he seems glad to see me, but I have no idea what
he’s saying. He’s probably speaking Greek – he looks Greek, a green-eyed fellow in well-worn
farmer’s garb. I pick up two words: “Zeus,” the god and the name of the mountain we’re halfway
up; and another word, a jumble of discordant consonants and soft vowels, something like
“Kithonius.” I guess that’s his name.
Kithonius’s clothes are charmingly oversized – his pants in particular are so baggy he’s
double-tied a rope around his waist and, though he’s rolled the legs up, the cuffs pool on the
ground, shrouding his feet. Mirrored sunglasses nestle in the tangle above his tanned brow, their
broad, curved surfaces reflecting the shifting leaves.
I say, “Why were you in a tree?”
He pauses mid-chatter, head tipped, then picks back up. He looks like a farmer, but the
ground is too rocky for crops. Maybe those are his goats in the field above the tree. I point at
them and he nods and that’s good enough for me. Goatherd it is. When I pull the camera from
my pocket he bobs his head and shrugs.
Kithonius waves his hands around, pointing from me to the mountain, skipping sideways
like he’s dancing. It makes me laugh, and soon we’re bantering back and forth amicably, the
meaning of our words lost other than the shared tone of enthusiasm. Our hands and eyes do the

The Goatherd of Naxos

2

real talking; we understand each other well enough. He knows I’m hiking up to see the Grotto of
Zeus, where Zeus was raised in secrecy because his dad had a thing for eating his children. His
sparkling eyes and occasional wink suggest he also knows about the Pagan rituals that have been
performed there for thousands of years.
Kithonius is hopping and pointing now, wagging his hand for me to follow. Beyond the
tree, a stream meanders past the goats. He leads me to the stream where I drink cupped handfuls
of cool water. He bends at the waist and sweeps a cluster of grapes from deep in a swirling eddy.
The motion is fluid and dramatic, the practiced manner of a magician. I get a great shot, the
water a glittering arc, his eyes on the grapes, his mouth crooked with laughter.
“Chrysoprasos!” he says, or something like that, holding out the grapes. They look
delicious, ice cold and dripping, glistening like translucent green pebbles.
“Efharisto,” I say. Thanks, the only Greek word I know. The grapes are cold, and heavier
than I thought they’d be. When I pluck one and eat it, Kithonius shakes his head. He points up
the valley, leaning in so I follow his finger to a shadowy crag in the distance. He smells like goat.
He shuffles and hitches, pumping his arms, as if he’s hiking. He pantomimes the hot sun, fingers
spread wide, and sweat, fingers running down his face, popping phantom grapes into his mouth,
his bright eyes sparkling.
“Save them for the grotto?” I say.
Laughing and babbling, he shooes me off.
A dozen marble-eyed goats watch me cross their field, heads turning, bells tinkling
discordantly. They’re wandering around the remains of a small fire. A pair of boots sit by the
fire, and what look like blankets or maybe clothes. I imagine Kithonius sitting around the fire at
night, eating a simple meal, surrounded by darkness and the soft clank of bells. It would be

The Goatherd of Naxos

3

strange and fun to camp here with him, sharing food and the fire, miming conversations. It’s a
fine thought, and I realize how far removed I feel from the summer island-hopping party scene –
which is why I came to Naxos.
#
Like most backpackers, I came to Greece to get drunk and laid. Both happened, one with
greater frequency than the other, but neither was particularly satisfying once I met Selena.
I was working on Corfu at this pensione, Hotel Dionysus, and she arrived as part of the
usual morning throng, scores of backpackers pouring onto the dock from the overnight ferry
from Brindisi. Patrick and I usually worked the ferries – it was easier for us to fill the van with
backpackers because we spoke English. We were also useless around the hotel until we sobered
up around lunch.
“It’s a great place,” I was saying to a group of six or eight when she walked up. It was
hard to miss her, tall and pale and redheaded. I couldn’t see her backpack. “Cheap, too. Breakfast
and dinner and shower are included, it’s full of other backpackers, and it has a private beach.”
The group shuffled off to see what else was available, and she came forward, followed by
a handful of guys. One of them had her pack. She didn’t look at the pictures in my three ring
binder like everyone else, she just watched me as I gave my pitch. Her eyes were green,
unblinking, inviting. And highly distracting.
“Looks good,” she said when I was done. She smiled and the corner of her mouth drew
back into her cheek and made a spectacularly deep and inviting crease.
“Really?”
“I’m Selena.”
“Hey. I’m Cliff.”

The Goatherd of Naxos

4

“Where’s your van?”
I didn’t even have to sell her? Pretty girls meant more people, mostly guys, wanted to
stay at the Dionysus, and the owners paid us for each person we brought. I pointed to the van,
which ended up so packed we had to strap luggage to the roof and leave the sliding door open so
people could breathe.
#
The narrow stone path rises from the far end of the field and runs a few hundred yards
before petering out into a dusty footpath. From there it snakes up the valley, twisting between a
series of knitted hills. I meander through dense layers of shrubs and wildflowers, here and there
passing outcroppings of grayish-white rock that jut like ancient, cracked molars. A lizard flashes
between them like the brief lick of an iridescent tongue.
Soon I’m not on a path at all. The trees grow gnarled and hunched the higher I climb, the
vegetation hunkering close to the inhospitable rock, until only the sparsest grasses grow. The sun
is brutal; I’m soaked through with sweat. The grapes tempt me, still cool in my hand. I wait,
dreaming of hungry nymphs. The idea strikes me as so pathetic I laugh out loud. Sure, and
maybe one of them will be Selena.
I angle across a shifting scree slope, small avalanches clattering down into the valley
each time I slip. Up here, nothing grows except mint-colored lichen, splashed like great loose
gouts of bird droppings across the weathered rock. I keep moving, anticipating the shady grotto,
a dip in its icy waters, and the sweetness of the grapes.
#
“There’s a party on the beach, you should come,” Selena said. Watching her dance and
drink at dinner, it wasn’t one to miss.

The Goatherd of Naxos

5

“Fuck yeah,” Patrick said, arms loaded with clinking glasses. “We’ll be down after we
clean up.” I thought Selena was talking to me, but Patrick was like that, and fun to party with.
It took us an hour to clean the dining hall – there was a lot to clean up after the ouzo
shots, table dancing, and plate-breaking, all part of the Hotel Dionysus experience. It was
entertaining to watch, the same rituals of alcohol and flirting enacted by a rotating cast of
backpackers, but it took forever to clean up after.
Patrick and I headed to the beach, passing a bottle back and forth. He was drunk before
dinner.
“I fucking love this place,” he said, legs and shoulders shifting awkwardly as he stood on
a low wall peeing. He tucked himself back in his trunks and dropped down onto the wall, holding
his hand out for the bottle. I wanted to keep going, I could see the firelight and caught vague
waves of noise: singing and dancing. I handed him the bottle and looked for the firelight along
the beach below.
“I’m coming back next summer. Fuck no!” he belched. This was Patrick’s fourth summer
working at Hotel Dionysus. He shook a finger and declared, “No, I’m not even fucking leaving.”
He was a few years older than me, or looked like it. I don’t know if he went to college, or what
he did stateside between summers. I assumed he drank. He’d mentioned growing up on the east
coast—
I heard a whisking sound, like sweeping broken bits of plates in the dining hall, and when
I looked over he was gone. I heard a muffled crunch and glass shattering. It took me a moment to
process what just happened. I ran along the wall, scrambled down the embankment. Patrick was
crawling out of some bushes, laughing. Bits of glass glittered on the rock. He smelled like puke.

The Goatherd of Naxos

6

"Fuck, dude," he said, looking up at me. His mouth and chin were bloody, and his shirt
was torn at the shoulder. I helped him stand. "I think I fell off the wall."
"Are you okay?" He’d cut his lip, bit through it maybe. Otherwise he looked fine.
"I'm fucking immortal," he said, raising his fists. “Thanks to the Greek god of
Awesomeness, Ouzo.”
"Can you walk?"
"Think so.” He swayed slightly. “Yeah. Let’s party. Party on the beach! Wait, where’s
the booze?"
He’d definitely thrown up, I could smell it on his breath.
“We drank it.”
“No way, man. We gotta get more.” He started back up the hill, and I followed him. Of
course we never made it to the beach. I barely managed to get him back to his room.
#
The grotto isn’t the idyllic setting I’d imagined. A heavy gate blocks the entrance to a
small, dark cave, crude iron destroying what little charm the so-called grotto may once have
held. Tucked in a cloudy plastic sleeve wired to a bar is a wrinkled notice on Hellenic Ministry
of Culture letterhead. Neatly typed in a dozen languages, including English, is:

SITE CLOSED FOR INVESTIGATION

No moss grows on romantically crumbling statues, no fern-rimmed pool fed by a
waterfall beckons. Nothing to suggest Zeus or nymphs or even water, and I’m hot and thirsty.
This isn’t a grotto, it’s a miserable little cave, narrowing as it retreats down into the dark. I hiked

The Goatherd of Naxos

7

all day for this? I kick the gate and it shudders, echoing deep into the cave. A constant, cool
breeze blows from the depths. I lean my head against the gate and close my eyes. At least I have
the grapes. I look around for a shady spot to sit and eat them, but there’s nothing but rock this
high up.
When I look back, the gate is open. I realize there’s no chain or lock, just the sign.
Kithonius must have known it wasn’t locked, but I wish he’d have saved me the hike by miming
how ugly the place was.
Twenty steps down the throat of the cave it’s too dark to see. I didn’t bring a flashlight
because grottos are supposed to be sun-dappled places, not dark holes. But my camera flash is
strong enough and I navigate along fairly well. Smoke lingers on the breeze. Soon I reach a
cavern so large my flash barely reaches the far walls. It’s not a grotto, but it is a space fit for a
god. The cool silence reminds me of a cathedral. A long, flat slab sits in the middle of the cavern,
in its center a pile of dead coals and ash. It looks like the kind of place where Pagan rituals –
sacrifices, dances, orgies – would be performed. The floor around the slab is difficult to navigate
in the dark, rough and rocky. I imagine the rocks are the accumulated bones of centuries of
sacrifices. I hope my battery holds out.
#
On Santorini a week ago, I camped in the low scrub fringing a black sand beach, and
woke in the middle of the night to a group dancing on the beach, torchlight throwing wild
shadows. I walked toward the party, looking for Selena, who I’d told earlier I wouldn’t make the
party. I was so hung over I hardly left my tent. I must have looked like hell, but she was cool
about it. She’d been wandering among the tents, inviting everyone to the midnight bonfire. I

The Goatherd of Naxos

8

watched her move off, long pale limbs sliding between shivering fabric walls. I felt like death,
but she was still devastating.
People writhe in the firelight, but Selena wasn’t among them. Given the male majority
and the general absence of clothing, I lost interest quickly. I was glad I hadn’t joined them.
Walking the beach the next morning, I couldn’t find any sign of the fire – the coals were the
same dark gray as the sand, and were probably washed away in the tide. Other campers, stuffing
their tents and sleeping bags, said Selena left for another island. The hung over faithful clustered
around coffee pots, abuzz with strategic speculation. Most were heading to Ios, others planned a
preemptive move to Mykonos. Worn out from weeks of partying and tired of the Selena
marathon, I chose the more distant and supposedly quieter Naxos.
#
I pluck a grape and toss it up, trying to catch it in my mouth. I miss, the grape bouncing
off my cheek and away, lost among the rocks. I wonder what lucky denizen will come across it,
and if it will find it tasty. I catch the second one: bliss. It’s tartness radiates through my jaw. I eat
slowly in the cool darkness. I’m half dozing, thinking about Pagan rituals, when a goat bleats.
The sharp clack of hooves and the muffled clank of a single bell echo in the cavern. I call out to
it but my voice echoes harshly and I hear the goat’s scrabbling retreat. I sweep my hand across
the raised stone, panicked when I don’t feel my camera, imagining trying to find my way without
it. I realize it’s in my pocket as the sound of hooves grows distant. The flash reveals a small
opening across the chamber I hadn’t noticed before. The low battery light indicator is on; I can’t
follow the goat, I’d never find my way back if the battery died. So I eat grapes, hoping if I ignore
it the goat will come back, but it doesn’t. I feel badly leaving it here, but there’s no sense in both

The Goatherd of Naxos

9

of us getting lost. I use the last of the camera battery to find my way back, whistling as I go in
case the little goat decides to follow. I leave the gate propped open.
On the hike down, I watch for the goatherd. His boots and blankets and goats are all gone
from his camp site, and he’s not napping up in his tree. I drink from the stream and douse my
head in the icy water before the long hike down to Naxos Town.
#
Under a vine-covered trellis in a courtyard nestled among the jumble of white buildings
and twisting staircases of the hillside town, I eat a plate of steaming seafood and brightly-colored
vegetables. The sun turns the whitewashed walls from soft blue to burning orange to fading
violet. I sit unnoticed amid the evening bustle, passing the time before the overnight ferry to Ios
writing cheeky half-truths on the blank side of 1-hour photo prints. Even a hot hike to a lame
cave sounds like an exotic adventure when you’re in your kitchen trying to figure out what to
make for dinner, looking at a picture of a smiling Goatherd holding grapes by a mountain stream.
I’d even managed a couple of goats in the background. Despite the charming picture, I’m ready
to leave Naxos, feeling like I wasted my last day here hiking to that miserable cave. In the
postcards, I call it a grotto. I’m excited to reach Ios – with any luck, I’ll run into some of the
other backpackers I’ve seen around the islands, maybe even Selena.
An elderly man pauses at my table, a heavy knuckled hand resting on the edge. I look up.
He’s scanning for a table but the taverna is full. Once tall, likely a northern European, time has
bent his back into a majestic hump. His parchment-like skin is dappled with brown spots, his
head crowned by wispy remnants of hair.
I motion to the open chair.

The Goatherd of Naxos

10

“You would not mind if I join you?” he says. I wonder where he’s from – if English is his
native tongue, his words are either accented by a land I’ve never visited or tainted by his years
away from it.
“Not at all,” I say, sweeping up my postcards.
He settles in with a series of groans and mutterings.
“I am Doctor Jørg Bergsen.”
His grip is remarkably strong for such a frail-looking man.
“Cliff.”
The waitress arrives, treating him with familiarity and respect. They chat and laugh,
speaking Greek. He holds her hand briefly in his own arthritic claw, shaking it affectionately.
“May I offer you another drink?”
When the drinks arrive, we toast. His glass shakes slightly as he raises it. It tinkles, and I
realize his drink has ice in it. The waitress must like him, then, or he’s a regular – ice isn’t
usually on offer at restaurants I can afford.
“Did you take that picture?” Bergsen asks.
I nod. “Up on Mount Zeus earlier today.”
“Clever fellow.” He spins his glass, loose-wristed, and the ice cubes clink.
“He was taking a nap in a tree and scared the crap out of me. Those are his goats behind
him, I didn’t notice them when I took the picture. He was nice – he gave me those grapes.”
He looks over, mottled brow creasing. A line of bare bulbs strung between the buildings
pops on.
“What about you,” I say, “what brings you here?”
“My wife.”

The Goatherd of Naxos

11

“She from here?”
“No,” he says, in a way that suggests she might be buried here. “Did you talk to the
goatherd?”
“He was speaking Greek, so it was mostly gestures.”
“What did he look like?”
I describe him as best I remember – bow legs and oversized clothes, curly hair, green
eyes, and his comic pantomime.
“This man—”
“Kithonius.”
“That is not his name.”
“You know him?”
“Yes, I believe I do. He was not a goatherd.”
“How do you know?”
“I have tried to catch him for fifty years.”
“What? I mean – do you work for the Ministry of Culture or something?”
“Those idiots,” he says, flapping his hand, “can’t even keep the gate locked.”
“So you’re looking for Kithonius—”
“As I said, his name is not Kithonius.” Bergsen says. “He was saying ‘chthonios’ – Greek
for ‘under the earth.’ It is a dangerous word. It also refers to the underworld, and the spirits that
inhabit it.”
“Sure, that makes sense. He kept pointing to the grotto.”
“No.” Bergsen sips his drink. The ice makes that sound again. I don’t know what to say,
so I drink, too.

The Goatherd of Naxos

12

“Cliff, this is probably hard for you to believe, but he was not a goatherd. That was Pan.”
“Pan? The satyr?”
Bergsen keeps his eyes on me as he takes another sip.
“Come on, he was a goatherd. Pan has horns and hairy legs and a big—”
“He has chosen you to join his dance.”
Bergsen leans forward and says, “His sunglasses covered his horns.”
“Of course,” I say. “And his baggy pants covered his hooves.”
“You are mocking me, but it is true.”
I’m about to tell him he’s crazy but he sees it coming.
“I was a tourist here many years ago as a newlywed,” he says. “Your goatherd carried off
my wife. She was – is – a wonderful woman. Smart and charming. And a beauty. Red hair, pale
skin, eyes that sparkle when she looks at me.”
“What happened?”
“I am not sure. I woke alone one morning. I thought she was up early, walking the beach
perhaps. In those days, you could rent a house for nothing and have the beach to yourself. I
found the embers of a fire on the beach, her silk dress caught in a shrub nearby.”
“That’s fucked up,” I say, which animates his eyebrows. “Sorry. You never saw her
again?”
Bergsen shakes his head.
“I’m sorry,” I say, because it’s weird and sad and I don’t know what else to say.
“I’ve spent my life trying to find him, to join his dance and be with her again.”
“Join his dance?”

The Goatherd of Naxos

13

“He won’t have me.” Bergsen finishes his drink, the loose skin on his neck stretching as
he tips his head back, the brittle clink of ice cubes against his upper lip. Goat bells, that's what
they sound like. “But he is coming for you.”
“He could have just waited for me at the tree. Why would he come for me?”
“You are far from home, no one knows exactly where you are, maybe not even that
you’re in Greece. When you are eventually missed, it will be difficult to determine where and
when you disappeared.”
“So Kith – you’re saying he wants to kidnap me?”
“Yes. One night he will draw you to a remote place – the grotto, a field, a beach. There
will be people there, drinking and laughing, dancing around a fire. Eventually, the dancers follow
him from the fire into the darkness.”
Leaves rustle on the trellis, as if applauding Bergsen’s madness.
“Um, okay,” I say. “What happens then?”
“Chthonios.”
“The underworld?”
He nods.
“I don’t want to go there, I might miss my ferry,” I say. What a character. “I’ve got to go
– thanks for the drink, it was fun chatting.”
Bergsen stands with me, his hips and knees popping under sagging pants. “I enjoyed
meeting you, Cliff. Be careful.”
I weave through the tables, glancing back as I pull on my backpack. Bergsen is sitting
there, watching me. I hurry out of the courtyard into the labyrinth of stairs and passages that lead
to the docks. What a strange old man. I get lost in the warren, so I just keeping heading down

The Goatherd of Naxos

14

stairs and under archways, past glossy azure doors. When I hear a series of baritone rumbles, the
ferry’s engine cycling as it maneuvers into its slip, I take the steps two and three at a time, my
backpack rubberbanding. I don’t want to miss the ferry.
#
The ferry rises thirty feet above me, its rust-speckled flank bowing outward, erasing and
redrawing the stars with the chipped paint of its tubular guardrails as it gently sways on the
water.
A throng of backpackers waits behind a rope as cars load and unload. I look around for
backpackers I’ve met before, but don’t see anyone. I’m annoyed with myself for wanting to see
Selena. When the porter drops the rope a mad rush surges onto the ferry. The sounds of the shoe
stampede blend, a chaos of echoes, as we charge up the stairs.
Deck space is limited, and shelter from the wind is a priority to avoid a cold and
miserable night. I find a spot behind a tarpaulined lifeboat. Half an hour out of port it’s already
chilly and everyone’s settled in, shapeless under layers of wrinkled clothing. I watch the other
passengers, their impromptu picnics, soothed by the cacophony of chatting and laughter.
#
I haven’t been asleep for long when I hear the music. It’s not loud, but it’s magnetic.
Although I’m cold, despite being fully dressed inside my sleeping bag, I unzip and navigate
toward the music, passing through islands of sleeping bags and backpacks, their straps in the air
like the legs of dead beetles. No one stirs. I walk to the rail, the ocean surging blackly below.
The music is coming from the front of the ship, up on the forecastle. A red glow rises there, cut
by flickering shadows.

The Goatherd of Naxos

15

I walk toward the music and see a tall man ahead, standing by the rail. He’s looking up at
the stars and hasn’t noticed me. I stop when I recognize him.
“Bergsen?”
He didn’t hear me. As I step toward him, a soft hand runs along my arm.
“Hey you.”
It’s Selena. Her skin is cool and perfect in the moonlight. She’s wearing the same loose
dress from Santorini.
“Bergsen—”
“Don’t worry about him,” she says, pulling me gently. “Come with me.”
I find myself moving across the deck. Atop a narrow ship’s ladder a fire burns in a broad
metal brazier in the middle of the steel deck. The chairs are pushed against the rails. Several
dozen people dance around the fire, chanting, casting twisted shadows across the deck. They are
beautiful, naked and silent. The satyr is a blur of rhythmic gyrations among them, head and
elbows rolling. The music comes from a small row of pipes he’s playing. I recognize a lanky
Dutchman I stood next to in the packed aisle on the train from Napflion to Athens. I haven’t seen
him on the islands, and despite his height missed him in the ferry queue. His eyes gleam behind
his miniscule lenses as he dances, his taut movements on the train replaced with a loose, puppetlike fluidity.
I’m only half aware that I’m walking toward the fire now, my steps already in rhythm
with the song. I look over at Selena.
“I missed you on the beach,” she says, her hand slipping from mine. She lifts her dress
over her head in a single, smooth motion. Her body is a glory of pale swells and clefts, radiant
and inviting. She stands unmoving, pale, and statuesque, as I undress quickly and without grace.

The Goatherd of Naxos

16

The metal deck is cold on my bare feet; I can feel the engine thrumming. Selena slides her hand
back into mine, a warm, fluid promise. Together we join the dance, rising and falling with the
others, a circular tide, undulating, beholden to the flames.


