Sammi  slowly  walked  down  the  aisle  with  the  snack  and  beverage  cart.    
  
“Bone,  pig’s  ear,  or  leftovers?”  she  asked  at  each  row.  Three  each  across  the  rows.  A  
few  sleeping  were  skipped  over.    
  
“Bone,”  replied  some.  She  tossed  a  small  wrapped  biscuit  down  on  the  tray  next  to  a  
small  plastic  bowl  of  water.  A  few  dogs  looked  sorrowfully  at  the  tiny  bowls,  as  if  they  
wanted  to  know  how  they  could  be  expected  to  slake  their  thirst  with  that  measly  tongue-­‐
full  of  water.  The  bulldogs  had  the  saddest  expressions,  especially  those  who  didn’t  like  
flying  in  the  first  place  –  their  saliva  tended  to  get  overactive  in  the  dry  cabin  air.    
  
The  wrapped  bones  didn’t  go  over  well,  either,  for  the  new  fliers.  They  were  
obviously  expecting  a  good  chunk  of  cow  bone  to  grind  their  teeth  on.  Sammi  could  see  in  
their  eyes  the  anticipation  of  a  bone  that  might  ease  their  in-­‐flight  anxiety.  They  returned  to  
her  a  hang-­‐dog  expression  as  well  that  she  tried  to  ignore  as  she  continued  down  the  aisle.    
  
“Bone,  pig’s  ear,  or  leftovers?”    
  
A  pair  of  miniature  schnauzers  sat  side-­‐by-­‐side  on  their  cushions.  Please  don’t  say  
pig’s  ear,  she  thought.  Schnauzers,  especially  miniatures,  had  always  made  such  a  mess  
with  the  ears.  Their  tiny  jaws  and  ugly  noises  –  she  just  couldn’t  stand  it.    
  
“Pig’s  ear!”  they  replied  in  unison.  Sammi  turned  to  her  cart  to  hide  her  disgust.  She  
considered,  as  she  pulled  two  small  wrapped  ears  out  of  the  drawer,  how  different  some  
dogs  were  from  others.  Some  were  definitely  more  liable  to  shed,  or  drool,  or  whine  than  
others.  It  wasn’t  what  made  them  bad,  although  some  could  be  more  trying  on  patience  
than  others,  depending  on  what  attitude  they  offered.  But  that’s  what  made  them  all  dogs.  
They  couldn’t,  any  one  of  them,  be  perfect,  any  more  than  they  could  all  be  well-­‐tempered,  
calm,  and  gregarious  all  the  time,  either.    
  
“Pig’s  ear,”  replied  an  elderly  golden  retriever  in  12C.  The  golden  had  white  around  
her  ears  and  her  eyes  had  the  start  of  a  glaze.  Her  companion  was  a  slightly  younger  
greyhound  –  long  and  lanky.  The  greyhound  asked  for  leftovers.    
  
As  Sammi  tidied  her  cart  before  moving  to  the  next  row,  she  heard  the  greyhound  
complain.    
  
Sammi  knew  the  tiny  packet  of  desiccated  rice,  carrots,  and  chicken  giblets  was  just  
as  disappointing  as  the  water,  or  the  bone,  or  the  dried  out  ear  that  might  not  have  been  a  
pig’s  at  all  but  quite  possibly  a  pork-­‐flavored  soy  product  injected  into  a  form  and  baked  to  
the  tough  consistency  of  an  ear.    
  
“It’s  just  not  like  it  used  to  be,”  replied  the  golden  to  her  companion.  “I  remember  
when  the  bowls  were  metal.  Some  airlines  even  had  ceramic.  One  could  often  get  a  real  ear  
or  bone.  And  the  leftovers  option  –  that  wasn’t  available  until  you  were  probably  a  puppy.”  
Her  voice  sounded  wistful,  “I  remember  a  bit  of  hamburger  on  one  flight.  And  that  was  just  
the  snacks.  When  it  was  a  flight  with  a  meal,  we  could  still  find  steak  or  fish.  Sometimes  
even  venison  depending  on  where  we  were  departing.  Forget  that  today.  It’s  all  about  cost  
cutting.  It’s  like  kennels  in  the  air.”  
  
A  few  rows  back,  Sammi  heard  playful  yipping.  Four  little  puppies  squeezed  into  the  
row  with  their  mother.  She  was  a  collie  and  her  puppies  looked  like  their  father  might  have  
been  a  husky  or  malamute.  She  shushed  them.    
  
“I’ll  have  a  bone,  thank  you.  The  puppies  will  take  a  few  bowls  of  water,  but  they’ll  
be  nursing  in  a  few  minutes.”  

  
Sammi  looked  around  quickly  and  leaned  over.    
  
“Ma’am,  I’m  afraid  we  don’t  allow  nursing  in  the  cabin.”    
  
The  collie  looked  upset.    
  
“I’m  sorry,  Ma’am,”  Sammi  continued.  “We  encourage  bringing  pre-­‐extracted  milk  
onto  the  plane.  If  you  don’t  have  any,  you  can  certainly  use  the  lavatory.”  
  
Sammi  could  sense  the  dog’s  hackles  rising  and  smelled  the  bitch’s  aggression  as  
much  as  she  could  smell  the  milk  swelling.  The  puppies  yipped;  they  were  clearly  hungry.  
  
“I’m  supposed  to  take  my  puppies  with  me  into  a  cramped  space  with  astroturf  and  
a  well-­‐used  wooden  post  to  nurse?  You’ve  got  to  be  kidding  me.”  
  
Sammi  leaned  closer.  
  
“Look  that’s  what  I’m  supposed  to  say.  I  don’t  really  mind,  and  as  long  as  none  of  the  
other  dogs  say  anything,  I  don’t  have  to  either.”  
  
The  collie  nodded  and  appeared  willing  to  assess  her  fellow  passengers  and  decide  
on  her  own.  
  
Another  one  of  those  obnoxious  rules,  thought  Sammi.  Everyone  had  a  mother  and  
had  to  eat  one  way  or  another.  
  
The  cart  shook.  Turbulence  rocked  the  cabin.  Around  her  a  few  passengers  began  to  
whine.  She  noticed  ears  going  flat  and  a  few  heads  ducking  lower.  One  shaggy  tail  that  had  
been  wagging  out  into  the  aisle  since  take  off  retreated  into  the  row  with  its  owner.    
  
“There’s  a  rough  patch  of  air  that  we’re  experiencing  right  now,”  said  the  pilot  over  
the  PA.  “I  ask  that  all  passengers  remain  in  their  seats  for  now.  I’m  putting  on  the  Stay  sign.  
As  soon  as  we  get  through,  which  should  be  a  few  minutes  from  now,  I  should  be  able  to  
turn  it  off.”  
  
One  of  the  flight  attendants  repeated  the  announcement.  “The  pilot  has  put  on  the  
Stay  sign.  We  request  that  all  passengers  return  to  their  seats  and  remain  there  until  the  
pilot  has  turned  it  off.  Thank  you.”  
  
Three  rows  remained.  In  the  last  row,  there  were  two  empty  seats  and  a  pug.  He  
panted  nervously.  The  window  was  already  smudged  with  his  nose  slobber.  
  
“I  know  we  can’t  open  the  windows,  but  how  does  everyone  else  do  it?  We’re  so  high  
up,  but  I  feel  like  I  can’t  breathe  in  here,”  he  said  when  he  saw  Sammi  regarding  him.  
  
Sammi  could  hear  in  the  dog’s  voice,  and  see  from  his  teeth,  that  he  was  still  young.  
It  might  have  even  been  his  first  time  traveling.    
  
“We’re  in  a  different  pressure  zone  here,”  she  told  him.  “Have  you  ever  been  hiking  
in  really  high  mountains?”  
  
The  pug  nodded,  his  panting  lessened  slightly.    
  
“So  you  know  how  it  can  get  really  cold  and  sometimes  your  ears  pop?  Imagine  it’s  a  
lot  colder  outside  this  high  up  and  the  air  pressure  is  almost  dangerously  low.  If  we  had  
windows  to  open  we’d  all  be  very  cold  and  would  actually  have  a  harder  time  breathing.”  
  
The  pug  looked  back  out  the  window,  leaving  another  smudge.  “I  might  get  sick  if  I  
could  see  all  the  way  down,  I  suppose.  I  don’t  like  heights.”  
  
Sammi  nodded.  “Would  you  like  a  snack?”  
  
The  pug  turned  and  seemed  to  finally  notice  the  cart.  “What  do  you  have?  I  am  sorta  
hungry.”  
  
She  passed  him  a  bowl  of  water  as  she  told  him.    
  
“What  would  you  have?”  he  asked.  

  
Sammi  realized  no  one  had  ever  asked  her  that  before.  “I  don’t  know.  Maybe  the  
bone.  It’s  not  much,  but  it’s  the  most  familiar.  It’s  not  an  animal  bone,  it’s  the  baked  kind.”  
  
“My  gram  used  to  give  us  those  when  we  were  good.  Sitting,  being  tidy,  asking  to  go  
out  politely.  I’ll  have  one.”  
  
Sammi  placed  the  small  bone  next  to  the  bowl  of  water.    
  
“Thanks,  thanks  for  the  explanation.  Sorry  about  the  window.  I’m  not  sure  if  you’ll  
have  to  clean  it  later.  How  long  until  we  land?”  
  
“I  think  we’re  about  two  hours  out.”  
  
“Okay.  I  think  I  can  make  it  that  long.”  
  
“If  you  need  anything,  just  let  one  of  us  attendants  know.  If  you  press  the  button  
there,  the  light  above  your  head  will  go  on  so  you  won’t  need  to  bark.”  
  
The  pug  pushed  the  button  and  watched  the  light  go  on.  He  clicked  it  a  few  times  
and  the  light  blinked  on  and  off.  Sammi  was  worried  he  would  flicker  the  light  for  the  rest  
of  the  flight.    
  
“I  won’t  use  it  unless  I  need  it,”  he  said.  
  
Turbulence  shook  the  cabin  again.  The  pug  bowed  his  head,  his  ears  pressed  close  to  
his  skull,  his  eyes  large  and  concerned.    
  
“It’s  okay,”  said  Sammi.  “Nothing  to  really  worry  about.  It’s  like  going  over  a  bumpy  
road  and  should  be  done  soon.”  
  
The  pug  nodded  without  looking  at  her.    
  
  
  
Sammi  put  the  cart  back  and  looked  at  Rita  and  Shorty,  who  she  frequently  worked  
with.  They  were  sitting  and  talking  about  what  they  were  going  to  do  at  the  beaches.  Sammi  
was  working  a  return  flight  before  she  finished  for  the  week  and  wasn’t  staying  with  them  
this  time.  She  almost  sat  down  but  caught  the  sound  of  a  thin  whine  around  the  corner.    
  
“I’ll  be  in  Row  35  until  the  Stay  sign  goes  off  if  you  need  me,”  she  said  to  Shorty.    
  
He  looked  up,  “Yeah,  okay,  hun.”  
  
In  35A  sat  the  pug  with  his  face  in  his  paws.  Sammi  sat  down.    
  
“I  remember  the  first  time  I  flew,”  she  told  him  calmly  as  the  cabin  rattled  lightly.  “I  
felt  really  alone.  I  also  was  too  afraid  to  push  the  call  button  because  my  mother  had  always  
said  to  me,  ‘Sammi,  no  begging.’  I  didn’t  really  understand  the  difference.”  
  
The  pug  cocked  his  head  when  he  raised  it  to  look  at  her;  Sammi  was  pretty  sure  he  
understood.    
  
“Where  were  you  going?”  he  asked.    
  
“I  was  going  to  visit  a  sister  in  Iowa.”  
  
“I  just  bought  the  cheapest  ticket.  I  don’t  even  know  where  to  go  when  I  land.”  
  
“Are  we  landing  in  your  final  destination?”  
  
The  pug  nodded.  
  
“Do  you  need  a  hotel?”  
  
An  uncomfortable  moment  hung  in  the  air.  “I  don’t  have  money  for  a  hotel.  I  spent  it  
all  on  the  flight.  I’m  a  stray.”  A  thin  whine  resumed  in  the  back  of  the  dog’s  throat.    
  
“Shh,  it’s  okay,”  said  Sammi,  thinking  how  they  were  all  strays  one  time  or  another  
in  their  short  lives.  “Don’t  worry.  You’re  going  to  a  nice  town.  If  the  weather’s  good,  you  can  
sleep  on  the  beach  for  a  night.  Otherwise,  I’d  recommend  a  safe  place  on  Seventh  and  
Hawthorn.  The  dog  who  lives  there  should  be  able  to  help  you  out  for  a  night  or  two  while  
you  figure  things  out.”  

  
“Seventh  and…?”  
  
“Hawthorn.  But  don’t  worry.  The  bus  from  the  airport  lets  everyone  off  near  the  
park.  The  scent  of  the  ocean  is  strong,  but  you  should  be  able  to  pick  up  the  scent  of  
squirrels  and  fried  doughnuts.  Follow  the  doughnut  smell  until  you  reach  the  café.  The  
scent  of  old  leaves  will  be  stronger  and  something  like  the  soap  that  comes  in  the  blue  
boxes.  You’ll  know  it  immediately.  Follow  that,  and  you’ll  find  Happy  and  his  place.  He’s  an  
English  sheep  dog;  he’s  wonderful.  He’ll  help  you  out.  You  can  tell  him  you  know  me,  but  it  
really  won’t  matter.  He’s  just  that  kind  of  dog.”  
  
“Thanks,”  said  the  pug,  looking  more  at  ease.  “Thanks  so  much.”  
  
The  stay  sign  had  dinged  off  while  Sammi  was  finishing  the  directions.  She  got  up.    
  
“Don’t  worry,”  she  said.  “We’re  all  dogs,  after  all.”  
  
The  pug  nodded  and  then  sighed  like  he’d  been  holding  his  breath.  His  pink  tongue  
lapped  his  nose  as  he  looked  at  the  bone  still  sitting  in  front  of  him.  He  ate  it  carefully  so  as  
not  to  leave  any  crumbs.  
  
  
  
  


