Sally looks into the mirror and the mirror behind her looks at her too and that
reflection stares at her reflection which stares at her reflection which stares at her
reflection, staring and staring and staring forever and forever, forever, never to end, and
she looks into the mirror and the mirror behind her looks at her too which stares at her
reflection which stares at her reflection. Infinite reflections reflected against reflections
infinite.
She blinks. Thousands upon thousands blink.
She giggles, chuckles. They all giggle and chuckle. This is the game little Sally plays
in her bathroom. Infinite Sallys, every morning, trapped within two parallel mirrors.
As she brushes her teeth, she dances with her shoulders to a rhythm that plays only in
her head. The infinite Sallys follow suit, shrugging and bumbling—everyone getting
toothpaste over their chubby cheeks while their short blonde hair bobs. Why not dance?
The summer is here, and its warmth is all-embracing, and she is surrounded by friends.
She spits and breaks into nonsense rhymes, rhymes without meter or substance, but
she does not care for her countless reflections—their joy, their chaos, their toothpaste—
bring her a comfort beyond compare, the comfort of thousands like-minded allies, all
linked together, all being silly. All having fun. With millions on her side, she is made
whole.
Pulling her mouth wide open, she examines the adult teeth that have finally settled
into her lower jaw. The tooth fairy gave her $5 for her last one. Reignited in their jubilant
celebration, all the Sallys burst into song.
#

Mirrors / 2

Sally’s voice has occupied the Martin household for the last month. Whenever she
catches a sound—a bursting boombox on the street, the smooth grooves of Mom’s
vinyl—she grabs it, reforms it, then spews it endlessly until every word becomes drilled
into every member of the family.
The process has begun to exasperate Sally’s father. From the moment he returns to
work, he knows he will be bombarded with the same ten-word chorus until he can think
of nothing else. It pains him, specifically his right hip, but he says nothing. Her joy is too
robust to silence.
Sally’s mother has landed upon a different opinion.
As Sally leaves the bathroom, Mom declares from the kitchen, “Sally, come here.”
Sally toddles over, stumbling into Mom’s shadow. She gazes up: How tall Mom is.
Slender. Beautiful in the angularity of her features. Mom is amazing, she thinks.
#
Mom stares down at the girl and a cold unease drips its way down her body. The girl
is wearing the same dress as yesterday, she thinks.
Mom has long learned how others look at her—how anyone looks at an attractive
woman. Like fine china—full of awe, grace, respect. She enjoys the power, but, unlike
the porcelain, she has learned to harden herself to survive a fall. She knows: There is
always someone aching and hungry to smash beautiful things, especially a woman.
Poise is her shield and beauty her blade. And they are strong. Sharp. So as Sally
continues to bob, Mom is again left with a dominating thought: How her daughter shares
nearly no resemblance to her.

Mirrors / 3

Sally inherited too much of her father—his roundness, his undignified personality.
They bounce both externally and internally, with fat plopping around and too many
chaotic giggles abound. Neither can control themselves. And as the girl has aged, it only
has worsened, as she grows into the shape a fire hydrant that spews ever-increasing
volumes of liquid auditory foolishness. They share only their hair and eyes.
If this does not cease, she knows Sally will be destroyed.
Sally leans against their mahogany countertop. Her toothy grin rests easy.
“You are going to begin to take vocal coaching,” Mom orders. “Your father doesn’t
like hearing it all day, but you have potential. You need to work, though. You will
practice twice a week.”
After thinking for a moment, Sally sticks her tongue out. “Okay, Mama.” Then she
begins to hop, prancing on her toes like a rabbit.
“Stop jumping.”
Sally stops.
Mom stares down at her. “You’re getting older. Soon you are going to need to start
acting your age. Do you understand?”
Sally nods once. “I think I do.”
Mom examines her daughter, masked under her shadow. After studying her up and
down, she leans over and lightly embraces her. “I love you.”
Sally hugs her back, squishing her. “I love you more, Mama.”
#
“I told you. It goes ‘ahh-AAhh-AAAhhh’ not ‘agghh-gahgah-blurg-duh-jurg,’ or

Mirrors / 4

whatever that was. Do it again.” Nathan is a wrinkled man with graying eyes held in a
constant squint. More than once, he has told Sally that he is tired of living and tired of
people, and she should count herself lucky that she is not a person yet but still a girl. He
resumed coaching children and their pubescent voices after he and his wife blew the
retirement fund that was meant to last for twenty years in two. Now the wife is gone and
there is nothing left but work.
Nevertheless, the work remains fruitful. Over the years, he has ensured that his name
has flowed like mercury, dripping through the minds of affluent parents who know their
child is the golden one while he silently contaminates their wallets. And often the child
appears made of gold, with their perfected teeth or diamond-encrusted earrings or clothes
he himself cannot afford, but it soon becomes clear it is only leafed. Another layer down,
below the skin, they are nefarious brats or talentless deviants. Never gold at all, only
pyrite and rhinestone. Yet there is something about the foolish little girl before him that
he likes. An honest imperfection.
For a few weeks now, he has watched spit drip and fly out of her mouth as she
performed the silly exercises he required of her. How her eyes nearly cross when she tries
to concentrate on something. He thinks she is funny looking, that she has the
dumbfounded face of a confused baby. But she does what he asks of her, and she does it
with focus and with determination and with will. There is no fight with her. She has the
fight in her. Learning is a game that she yearns to master. That is her quest. And that is
why he pities her. He knows a girl like her does not fit into his world of assholes.
Sally vibrates her tongue against her lip. Spit dribbles down her chin. He lightly

Mirrors / 5

touches her shoulder. “Stop for a second, Sally.”
She pauses, staring at him with her blue eyes. So deep and big on her young face, he
falls into them. He softens his voice and asks, “Do you really want to be doing this?”
“Doing what?”
“Singing, all this work. Is this your decision?”
She looks at him, tapping her chin, curious. “Of course I do! I love to sing. I think it’s
fun.” She giggles.
In return, he barks out a laugh that turns into a cough, weighed down by years of
cigarettes and various other substances. He swallows it, finding some spit of his own
dribbling down his chin. He wipes it away. “Singing is one thing, the work that goes into
making it into something is another. Don’t forget that.”
A silence balloons while a light bobs in the hall—Mom’s shadow moving. Nathan
coughs again. Then he takes a deep breath and exhales. “All right, back to work. Keep
going.”

Mirrors / 6

Mom prepared diligently for Sally’s eleventh birthday. The girl deserved an award,
she decided, for she had won a leading role in the school musical. The party would have
all the niceties required for tweens stuffed in their town house: balloons (purple and pink
exclusively), three cakes, soda, sweets, a photographer, a caricature artist, a DJ, and a
horde of children. To fulfill the last requirement, she had to mingle with some mothers at
the school—often quite demeaningly—but failure was not an option. They would come.
And come they do.
The house chokes after nearly every one of Sally’s classmates—fifty-one in total—
have stuffed themselves in like roaches chasing after the discarded candy cane one child
dumped behind the couch. Under their tiny feet, the timbers appear to be vibrating.
“Sally, this party is amazing!” Michele—the girl with the black hair who sits at the
popular table and always wears a blue bracelet around her arm (but always only her left
arm)—shouts.
Sally nods. “Thanks!” She waits for Michele to say something more, but the girl only
turns to Brittany and laughs and sips from her brown soda. Sally walks away, wandering
through her home.
Their green sectional couch, her favorite leather seat, they all look foreign, filled with
children she barely recognizes nor has ever spoken to. One boy spills soda onto his faded
jeans. Another, a tall one, pretends to be a monkey.
The music hurts her ears. No one is looking at her. No one is talking to her.
Suddenly, despite all the screaming and cake and music and dancing and eyes and
shoes and dresses and shaking and smiles and chaos, the house feels empty. Something is

Mirrors / 7

missing, she feels. She is missing. Materialized from a space inside her mind never
before explored, an invisible separation between her and the others juts out. The distance
between her and the children is stretching. It goes and grows, sending them to perhaps the
opposite ends of the earth, for she knows she cannot traverse it, not at thet moment. She
feels all this instantly but does not understand it. Yet it is there. There is distance.
The room is a void in camouflage.
A strange and unfamiliar coolness runs through her; a sudden gust of cold ripples
down the back of her neck though the room is scorching with the mass of young bodies.
She breaks out into a run.
Slicing through a circle of four of them—Kate, Ashley, Tiffany, Brad—she sidles into
the hallway and nearly trips but catches herself on the wall then dashes forward to her
room. But as she opens the door, she feels a tap on her shoulder.
“Isn’t this fun!” Mom’s rare grin reveals all her teeth—perfect, straight, white.
Sally takes a step back. “I guess.”
“Then why are you hiding out here?” Mom gives a mocking frown. “You should be
with your friends, Sally. They’re expecting you.”
“I will later. I’m just tired.”
Mom points down the hallway at a girl leaning against a shelf. “Talk to her!”
“I don’t know her.”
“Then meet her!” Mom pushes Sally, sending her stumbling a few steps forward,
before Sally catches herself and turns around. “Sally…” Mom makes her mom face. Sally
hates when she makes that face.

Mirrors / 8

“I know what will cheer you up.” Mom begins to walk away. “Wait right here.”
Sally waits for a few seconds, then moves toward her bedroom door again, but Mom
returns, holding a thin square package, wrapped tightly in red and white ribbons. “Here,
you can open my gift early.”
Gently, Sally pulls on the ribbons and allows the top to slide off and topple to the
floor.
“Don’t litter.”
There is a plastic black container with a thin and shiny cover, like a slate that will
open a portal to a new world. Sally pushes it open and finds a palate of different shades
of beige and a tube on the side. Makeup and mascara and foundation and cover up. Sally
stares at it, the colors and their complexity. She hesitates, then says, “Thanks Mom, but
I’ve never used makeup.”
“It is important to look nice, and with how Nathan tells me your lessons are going, it
is going to be extra important for you.”
Sally does not know what she means, so she simply says, “Thanks.”
Mom hesitates before she snaps at her. “You don’t think your friends wear makeup?
Look.” She grabs Sally’s shoulder and points at the girl leaning by the shelf. “Look at her
face. You see her eyes? You could have eyes like that.”
Sally steps forward to get a better look, expecting to see glitter or gold in the girl’s
gaze. But there is only a foreign darkness around her eye. It makes her look old. Black
and strange.

Mirrors / 9

“Sally, get in front of the camera.”
The girl is sitting and reading a biology textbook and wearing a red dress. The dress is
aggressive. It hugs her changing body, featuring a plunging neckline, cleaving just before
her burgeoning breasts. Mom bought it last week. She said it would help her stand out.
Highschool approaches; she must be ready.
“Come on Sally!”
“Let me finish this work.”
“It’ll only take a second. Come on, this is important.” Mom has set up a camera—the
third most expensive one from the camera store—and a microphone. She tipped the man
at the store to set it all up for her. A video application for Tehman’s School for
Performing Arts. She thinks it is ridiculous—why should they not want to see her in
person—but Tehman is the best. And only the best for her girl.
Mom tugs on Sally’s hand, and she puts the book down. She reluctantly rises,
scattering forward like a dog being pushed into a cage. She leans into the camera’s view.
She thinks Nathan would have never let her do this—at least not wear that dress—if he
was still around.
“Get more centered. And stand up straight! Look at my back. Does it ever slouch? No,
never.”
Sally rolls her eyes, then pushes her shoulders back and her chest up. She is tall for
her age, that is what they say at school. Deep breaths, that is what Nathan taught her.
Deep breaths. She needs them. She closes her eyes. Center yourself, stabilize, and sing.
Sing. Sing.

Mirrors / 10

The words stream out like honey pouring—sweet, gentle, smooth. They propel
themselves forward as a rock shot out onto a pond, generating perfect sonic waves that
float out into the air. They create a dance of their own, flittering strong and sharp while
remaining tender and warm. They dive high and they dive low, effortless and free. They
run, they stop, they skip, they glide, able to turn on a dime. They love their existence.
They embrace themselves without reserve as they know they are grace itself. They range
wide: rising with vigor and stamina in each crescendo like a looming tidal wave, falling
with precision and elegance in each crash like a swooping falcon. They vibrate with
power, make themselves known in a stirring resonance. They exit her lips as newborns,
ready to explore and grow and establish themselves fully realized. They are nourishment
for the starving. They are water for those lost in the desert. They are roses rising out of
ash, hot fire in the face of dark snow, a summer sun rising out of a cool night—able to
turn the dark into light. They are profound: Sally’s voice exists in a dimension unique to
itself—beyond simply sound—for in every listener, with every syllable, emotion and
color and memory and passion and desire is bloomed and intertwined, evoking within
consciouses unpredictable patterns of experience that defy simple definition. It is beauty.
It is bliss. It is everything. It is Sally.
She finishes and opens her eyes. The room returns to her. The final words settle,
fading gently into peaceful nothingness.
Mom has a half smile. “Oh my God, Sally that was great! Really fantastic! Now can
we try once more, with you smiling at the beginning?”
#

Mirrors / 11

The cafeteria buzzes as students plot their summer plans. They speculate: What will
high school like? They gossip: Which kids are going to private school, which are going to
public school, and which have no future. For some, the idea of getting older, becoming
the “young adults” their parents claim they will be, brings visions of a grand future. They
can see themselves in complex scenarios—love triangles or orchestrating elaborate
pranks—fantasies generated by the television screen. But only one idea holds Sally’s
attention. An end.
“I will miss you, Becky. You know that right?” Sally is sitting beside Rebecca, as
they have for lunch for the last eight years.
Rebecca hesitates to respond, electing to instead stare at another table of girls
chattering. She says, “Don’t worry. We’ll hang out next year no matter where we go to
school.”
They sit alone, at the back corner of the cafeteria. Sally likes it—the privacy. But
Becca continues to stare elsewhere.
“Do you remember that one time in fifth grade?” Sally asks.
“Which time?”
“That time you spilled yogurt all over your shirt, and Frankie laughed, so I threw my
yogurt at him but missed and it landed on Jessica?”
A sly smile emerges across Rebecca’s face. “Of course I remember that. How could
anyone forget it?”
They grow silent once more. The ambient noises of the cafeteria’s children clatter and
spread over them.

Mirrors / 12

“Listen.” Sally grows quieter.
“Yeah?”
“Thanks for being a really good friend.” She hesitates. “I needed it.”
Rebecca glances at her, perplexed. “Of course.” Then she yawns and stretches and
stands. “Give me a second, I need to ask Paula a question.”
As Sally watches Rebecca walk away and begin to laugh with a girl they have hardly
spoken to for the five years, an uncomfortable ache emerges like a lonely spider is
crawling beneath her dress and onto her stomach, searching desperately for its lost web.
Rebecca and Paula are going to the same high school, she knows. She just wants to get to
know her, she bargains.
Sally leans onto the table and gazes at the floor. Her shadow has grown long under the
florescent lights. As the crowd rumbles, it trembles.

Mirrors / 13

Sally lies flat on her back in the living room on their shaggy carpet in front of a muted
TV. Its blue hue glimmers over her face, but she does not turn toward its light. Instead
she opens her mouth and sings, with her eyes closed. She is Annie, an eleven-year-old
little orphan girl swooped up by Daddy Warbucks. She cannot decide what is more
ridiculous—the idea she can still play a child or the idea that someone will swoop in and
save you.
Her diaphragm contracts, air flows in. Her diaphragm relaxes, air flows out. Her
breath, abdominal muscles, back muscles, and intercostal muscles all act in coordination,
in an orchestra of their own, to produce smooth sound. She is that little girl, with a voice
of diamond.
But an eruption of noise destroys her focus.
She stops, opens her eyes. A few rooms beyond, a door slams, and her father’s hoarse
shout makes the floor shake.
“Why do you always do this? Why? Why? You can’t just have a nice dinner.”
Mom yells back, “Do you know how fucking annoying you sound?”
The two walk through a hall, around a corner, and into the living room. Sally stares at
them—her father’s red face, the cracks in mother’s typical mask. They are breaking, she
knows it. Something inside of them is crumbling. She presses a finger against her cheek
and finds a tear flowing down.
They both look down upon her. Then Mom spits at his face. “Look! Look what you
did.”
Dad rubs his bands back and forth against his thinning hairline. He throws his right

Mirrors / 14

hand high into the air with his palm stretched out, declaring a surrender. He says quietly,
“I’m sorry, Sally.” He does not face his wife but begins to move. “I got to go. I need
some air.”
Breaking out into tears as well, Mom screams after him, “Of course you do. Go! Go!
Get out of here.”
Down the hall, the front door slams shut. The light of the TV dances across the plains
of their carpet, but the music is no more. Silence dominates the room.
#
Mother and daughter sit awkwardly on a couch in the lobby of a skyscraper. “He’ll be
here soon,” Mom assures her.
They wait for the casting director to meet them. Sally auditioned last week for her
first paying job—a commercial featuring a banana, ice cream, and an elephant—and they
called back, but gave her only a minor role in the background. Mom insisted that they go
there and talk to the staff to find something better for Sally. She begged her to stand
down, but Mom did not cease. She declared, with hungry eyes, that this was the opening.
And as the argument spiraled, her shrieks grew shakier and her hands more volatile. The
chaos only stopped when Sally agreed to come with her.
Mom begged the secretary at the front to leave a message for the director.
“We should leave,” Sally says. They have been waiting for thirty minutes.
“No. He’ll be here soon.”
Another five minutes passes. They say nothing to each other. “Mom, I am leaving.”
Sally rises, but Mom grabs onto her hand. “Look, look!”

Mirrors / 15

Out from the end of the hall, a silver elevator slides open. A suited man exits, smiling,
his black hair carefully combed and flared over his head. He comes straight to them.
“Hello, what can I do for you?”
“My daughter was given a role that I do not think is properly suited given her talents,
and I would like to know why.”
The man studies Sally, trying to piece together who she is. He laughs, then claps once.
“Yes, the girl with the amazing voice, I remember!”
Sally’s shoulders shrink, her back bends. She falls into her shadow.
“Yes, the girl with the amazing voice. And your commercial features singing, does it
not?”
The man scratches his chin. “Yes, well your daughter’s voice is great, and we thought
she was—is—adorable.”
“Yes?”
“But we didn’t think she’d be the right fit for one of leads, but we were happy to give
her a spot for the chorus.”
Wrinkles materialize as Mom tightens herself. She snaps, “What do you want her to
do?”
“Excuse me?”
“Why don’t you want her? Tell me, what is wrong with her?”
Tearing up, Sally begins to walk away toward the entrance. Mom grabs her arm.
“Stop, Sally.”
She shoves her back, sending Mom falling onto the couch. Sally looks down at her

Mirrors / 16

hard, at Mom’s disgusted face and bitter eyes.
The man steps back. Mom rises, not breaking her gaze at Sally, and says slowly, “We
need to talk outside.”
Sally beelines for the door.
Mom whispers to the man, “We’ll be right back.”
Sally shoves her way open through the building’s long glass doors, letting them clatter
behind her. The city’s soundscape hits like a brick. She waits. The door opens again.
Someone stands behind her, but Sally refuses to turn. Along the concrete beside them,
two long shadows stand side by side, melding into one as they hold hands in their dark.
“I think you’re taller than me now. And more beautiful than ever.”
Sally says nothing.
A sigh. “You know that there is no one else who will look after like you I do. There is
no one else who will love you like I do. Not your father, not your friends. Nobody. It’s
just me.”
Rubbing her eyes with the back of her hand, Sally bends her head toward the
sidewalk. Still, Mom’s power cannot be denied. She feels those eyes piercing through the
side of her skull, shooting straight to her brain.
“Don’t forget that. Never forget that.” Mom pauses, waiting for a response. “Do you
understand that, Sally?”
Still silence.
“Do you?”
Sally finishes cleaning off her eyes and matches her mom’s sigh. “Yes. I do, mother.”

Mirrors / 17

“Now let’s hug, say we love each other, and go back into that room to get you a better
part.”

Mirrors / 18

It is a Saturday when Mom knows Sally will receive the most important news her young
life. Or at least that was how Mom described it last week.
Throughout high school, Sally had chained together some low paying gigs, but now
she is up for something big—the role of Fantine in Les Misérables for a professional
theatre company. They advertised: “Looking for an accessible younger actress with
emotional depth and an earth-shattering voice.” That is Sally. That is her daughter. Mom
sat by the phone all day, waiting in anticipation, while Sally tried to watch TV but could
not focus, not with her stomach turning.
Then at 3:42 PM, the phone rings. Mom snatches it up. Listens. Sally watches her
across the room, watches her lips move. They form a smile. Then a grin. Then a wild
explosion of jubilance. She puts the phone down. She runs into the living room,
screaming. “AHH! AHH!” She envelops her daughter in her long thin arms. “You did it!
You did it! You did it!”
She kisses the side of her head then disengages. “I need to tell Lucy. She won’t
believe this.” She runs back to the phone.
Sally stares blankly out into their immaculate living room. Something is wrong. Her
stomach still hurts. The nervousness is still there. The buzz from the TV is infuriating.
She grabs the remote and turns it off. In the screen’s darkness she sees the reflection of
her scowl. She wonders why she is not smiling.
The panic holds true. In fact, it only holds stronger, clutching her stomach like a
tumor has been growing inside her and now has reached capacity. Her breath begins to
pulsate, weaken, and frazzle. “I’ll be… in the bathroom,” she manages to stammer out.

Mirrors / 19

She needs to grab the walls to support herself, to push her forward. What is that lesson
Nathan taught all those years ago? She tries to remember. To stay calm in front of a
crowd. But she cannot remember. Her mind is too scattered, her will too broken.
She nearly trips into her porcelain bathtub, but she grabs onto the sink to stabilize.
She kicks the door closed. The space is lit only by a tiny window in the corner of the
room, hidden above the shower. Only that thin, dim light and her uneven breath
establishes life in the room. The darkness feels good, the darkness feels right. She is
afraid of what the light could bring.
She looks up. Those mirrors. Those mirrors.
Sally looks into the mirror and the mirror behind her looks at her too and that
reflection stares at her reflection which stares at her reflection which stares at her
reflection, staring and staring and staring forever and forever, forever, never to end, and
she looks into the mirror and the mirror behind her looks at her too which stares at her
reflection which stares at her reflection. Infinite reflections stare against reflections.
Each reflection is dim. They all carry her uneven breath; they all look haggard. Their
noses look bigger than normal, curved like that of a caricatured witch. Millions all have
an ugly pink acne scar on the bottom of their right cheek. Fat cheeks, messy hair. All
fools, all idiots. She hates staring at them—all of them, every one of them—but she
cannot stop staring at them, for she is transfixed by her utter disgust in them. They are her
enemies in countless droves, millions. Yes. Yes. They are disgusting. Repulsive. Evil.
Awful. All of them. They are fat, ugly, weak, stupid, terrible. Millions, billions of them,
all of them broken humans, worthy of nothing. Utter trash. She hates how they move with

Mirrors / 20

her, how they follow her every step. No more. No more of them.
They must be destroyed.
She gazes wildly around the bathroom. There. She rises onto the tips of her toes and
rips the shower curtain rod from the walls. It snaps off quickly, sending her flying back,
and whips against her arm. She glances. Skin has opened, spilling red into gray, but she
ignores the pain. She turns to the mirrors one final time. Those awful, awful mirrors. Two
parallel mirrors working in concert to destroy her. Now they will be destroyed.
She whips the rod and smacks the front mirror head-on. It splits in two, a large bottom
piece sliding off the into the sink while the top crackles into shards.
She turns around and slams the other mirror in its center. The impact vibrates out,
rippling through the glass, sending out cracks like shockwaves. Some pieces fall to the
floor, most of it holds. She hits it a second time. It shatters entirely. It is done.
She throws the rod back into the tub and turns to face the front mirror once more. The
reflections are wild and disoriented, refracting on the angles of cobwebs. There is some
reflection between mirrors, but only in broken bits, disfigured patterns projecting red and
flesh and pink and ugliness. Only half of her face can be made out cleanly. It is her, split
into two. Distorted, alone, broken.
She smiles. For the first time in years, the mirrors offer her the reflection she expects
to see.
And within those shards, she catches shades of her mother.


