Monday, 7:40 a.m. Mike Wilson was ready to walk out the door of his apartment
when the phone rang. He glanced at his watch, although he knew the exact time. I've got
five minutes. It might be a client. I should answer. He picked up the receiver.
"Mike? It's Janine."
"Hey, Janine. I'm going out the door. I've got an early meeting with new clients."
"I just wanted to tell you how much I enjoyed last night." She paused. "I mean, I
really enjoyed last night."
Mike was a sucker for female voices, and Janine could do this thing with her
voice. It was like a super power, at least where Mike was concerned, an instant seduction.
"I had a great time too," he said, looking at his watch, "but I gotta..."
She interrupted. "I'm off early on Wednesday. Amy's coming in from corporate,
so I can leave by five. Maybe we could do something?"

Loose Change- 2
"Uh, Janine, I have a bunch of new client appointments this week. One this
morning at 8:30. The government quarterlies are coming out. You never know how that'll
affect the market. I've got to be on my toes. No late nights on work nights."
Nights with Janine were late nights. She was bold, inventive. She loved to
experiment. She asked for things. And she was inexhaustible. Mike had never been with a
woman quite like her, and he had been with many.
"Mike." Janine sounded annoyed. "We've been seeing each other for three
months." Three months? That long? "And I'd like some sort of commitment. Like, I'd
like to know more than a day or two in advance if I'm going to see you."
"Ok. Look. You know I'm trying to build my business. It's not easy being an
independent when the other guys have major investment houses backing them. So I have
to work hard, but I'll put aside Friday night, I promise, for you. Ok?"
"I guess what I'm really asking is where I stand."
"Stand?" Mike looked at his watch. 7:46. Shit. The five-minute cushion was
gone, and he was moving into the late zone. "Is this like exclusive commitment talk? It's
1990, Janine. The Puritans no longer rule around here."
"Did you ever hear of AIDS, Mike? STDs?" She was angry now, Mike could
tell. "Maybe they don't print that stuff in the Wall Street Journal, but I don't need a
boyfriend bringing that shit home just because he needs space." She spit out the last
word, and the line went dead.
Mike sighed. Not what he needed today. He needed to be sharp, focused. This
meeting with the Cortlands was important. They were old money in Gleasonville, both
Mr. Cortland and his wife, who was a Blair. Their family names were on streets, parks,

Loose Change- 3
buildings, and they were friends with Jack Worthey, Mike's landlord. Jack had talked him
up, and Mike was determined not to disappoint.
#
The meeting went well. The Cortlands seemed to like him immediately. They
made what Mr. Cortland called a modest commitment, which made them Mike's third
largest account. Their investment was the largest single transaction of Mike's career. On
top of that, they invited him to lunch at the Plowmans Club, the city's most exclusive
social club. Maybe they'll invite me to join, Mike thought as he locked the office door and
headed to the Skylark Diner for a celebration breakfast.
When he got there he went to the men's room to wash his hands. He liked the
Skylark. The bathroom was clean by diner standards. He looked in the mirror. Mike
Wilson, Wealth Management. His reflection smiled. “You could use a haircut,” he said.
His dad had said that once a week when Mike was a kid. But he liked his hair, and Mom
had liked it, the luxuriant black waves that parted naturally in the middle of his head, fell
around his ears and brushed the nape of his neck as he moved.
He glanced at the condom dispenser on the wall and thought of Janine. He had
only been with one other woman since he met her. He wasn't in love. No, it wasn't that.
She was like a drug, and you just kept wanting more. And she's right. I shouldn't be
taking unnecessary chances. I should stock up. I’m not through having fun, but I’m
through taking chances. At thirty Mike had taken plenty of chances, chances with
women, with money, with life. So far he had luck on his side.
He felt the lump of coins in his pocket, their weight tugging at his waistline. He
was bad with change. He forgot to use it, handing over wads of paper instead, getting

Loose Change- 4
back more coins. They filled his pocket, falling out when he sat in the park, the theater,
the office. At home they slipped down into the lining of the couch, rolled under the
bookcase or the bed. They piled up on the dresser until he scooped them into a mason jar.
Coins, he decided, were a government scam. They minted them, sent them out,
and the coins circulated until they reached the end-user, the coin-collector, the coin-saver,
the coin-hoarder, the coin-loser. That’s what he was, the end-loser of coins. Coins were
the government’s profit margin. Once the feds spent them on whatever trinkets caught
their fancy they knew they’d never see them again. That book wouldn't need to be
balanced. Mike thought about those Roman coins the archeologists found. Probably
dropped out of someone’s pocket.
He rubbed his hands together under the dryer then reached into his pocket. One
way to shed some loose change. He fed quarters to the condom machine, cranking the big
chrome handle with each one. On the fourth coin he heard a satisfying double-click and a
small white cardboard rectangle issued from the slot at the bottom. It was slightly larger
than a business card and boldly lettered.
What the...? Mike grabbed the card, looked in the slot, tried to get a finger into it.
He gripped the handle. It was locked in its detent position. He banged the machine.
Nothing.
“Shit.” He looked at the card in his hands.

Congratulations!!
A once-in-a-lifetime opportunity
is yours

Loose Change- 5
Call Immediately for Details

“Fucking shit.” He banged the machine again and turned away.
Late-morning sun streamed through the windows that formed three walls of the
nearly empty diner. It bounced off the formica table tops, the chrome and glass of the
miniature jukeboxes that adorned each booth, the stretches of metal that edged every
surface. It flooded the interior with light. Mike headed for the counter. “Damn it,” he
thought, seeing the girl at the register. She was a kid. Eighteen or nineteen at most.
Pretty. This is embarrassing. But it had to be done. Mike couldn’t tolerate it, anonymous
machines swallowing people’s money. At least he’d complain.
“Can I help you?” The girl smiled, leaning toward him, forearms on the counter.
Her face had that look that said she found him attractive. Mike recognized it. He had seen
it a hundred times. Women liked him, often at once and without reservation. He didn’t
need to do anything. Just let it happen.
“Is the manager around?”
“Mr. Patterson? He’ll be here at noon. Is there anything I can do for you?"
Mike took a deep breath and placed the card between the girl’s hands. “This came
out of the machine in the bathroom.”
She looked at it, at him. “Out of the blow dryer?”
“No, not the blow dryer. Out of the... uh, out of the dispenser. I put a dollar in the
dispenser and that’s what came out.”
She was eager to play. “So what did you expect to get out of the dispenser?”

Loose Change- 6
Mike, impatient, clenched his teeth. “Condoms. I expect a condom dispenser to
dispense condoms.”
She looked at him like he had spit in his coffee. She stood and folded her arms in
front of her.
“Look, Miss, do you know who runs the vending machines here?”
She extracted a card from beside the register and dropped it on the counter. She
looked right through him.
“ Look, this sort of thing shouldn’t be going on. Freaking vending machines
taking people’s money.” She did not react. He shrugged, grabbed the cards and turned
toward the phone in the corner. He pulled out a quarter. Christ, this is getting expensive.
He dialed the number on the card, and mercifully a male voice, gravelly and tobaccoscarred, answered.
“Impulse Vending.”
“Hi, my name’s Mike Wilson. I’m at the Skylark Diner and one of your machines
just confiscated my money.”
“Oh, yeah? Which machine?”
“The condom dispenser in the boys’ room.”
“Sorry, Pal. Not me. I’ve got cigarettes and candy. The slip covers are somebody
else.”
Mike looked toward the girl. She still stared at him, expressionless. He swore
under his breath. “How about the telephone?” he asked.
“Oh, yeah, the phone’s mine too.”

Loose Change- 7
“Well, listen. I just fed your phone my money to call you about a vending machine
that ripped me off. Maybe you could do me the favor of telling me whose machine it is?”
“I’m really sorry... uh, Mike was it?” Mike grunted. “I don’t meddle in hygienics.
I got enough trouble with the tobacco nazis and the health food nuts. I’m makin’ their
kids fat. I’m rottin’ their kids’ teeth. I’m givin’ their kids cancer. Christ, tobacco was a
sacred plant of the Native Americans. Is it my fault it got ruined by big business? I can’t
help you. See Mr. Patterson. He’ll tell you whose machine it is.”
“Patterson’s not here.”
“Well then, Mikey, I guess you’re shit outa luck.”
Mike returned the phone to its cradle. What am I doing? I don’t care about the
dollar. Or the condom. I should buy them in the supermarket, for chrissake. I gotta get on
with my life here. He stepped outside into the sunshine.
#
Later that night Mike stood at the door to his apartment. He fished in his pocket
among the loose change for his keys. Something fluttered to the floor. The card from the
condom machine. He retrieved it, went inside and tossed keys and card on the kitchen
table. He got a beer and folded himself into a chair. A coin fell from his pocket and
rattled on the floor. Mike made no move to pick it up. He read the message on the card:

Congratulations!!
A once-in-a-lifetime opportunity
is yours
Call Immediately for Details

Loose Change- 8

“Shit. These people have balls.” He turned the card. The other side read:

Paradise Rewards
1-800-2SAY YES

He took a drink of his beer. I should give them a call. They shouldn’t get away
with this crap. He brought the phone from the counter. On the third ring a female voice
answered.
“Paradise Rewards. This is Ruth Sipes. How can I help you?” The voice was...
what? Sexy.
Mike spoke slowly, keeping his voice neutral, conversational. “I have a card in
my hand. It has your number on it. It came out of a vending machine. It wasn’t what I
expected to get.”
The woman laughed. “People are often surprised to get one of our cards.”
“Don’t you want to know what machine?” She already knows what machine. Or
maybe she doesn’t. Maybe they put their cards in all sorts of machines.
Oh, the machine doesn’t matter. The important thing is you didn’t throw it away.
Lots of people throw them away, but you called. You made the right decision, Mr... uh...”
“Wilson. Mike Wilson.”
“You definitely made the right decision, Mr. Wilson.”

Loose Change- 9
“Uh, Ms. Sipes? I don’t really know what decision you’re talking about. I called
because I don’t think it’s right... I mean, taking people’s money in vending machines like
that.” It was hard to be forceful against her voice. So interesting, so nice.
“Please, call me Ruth. And, Mr. Wilson? Can I do something for you?”
“Do something for me?”
“Send you something, a token, to show that Paradise Rewards is not about...” She
paused. “About absconding with loose change. Let me just make sure I have your correct
address. 1789 Ruskin Boulevard, Apartment A-2, Gleasonville?”
Wow, she must have pulled that off the computer. Mike used CompuServe at the
office, and it was amazing, the information that was available. For a couple of bucks you
could get just about anything, birthdays, anniversaries. It impressed his clients, those little
personal touches. “Yeah, that’s right.”
“Why don’t you just wait until you hear from me by mail, Mr. Wilson. Then
perhaps we can talk again. Alright?”
“Uh, yeah. Sure, Ruth, sure.”
#
The next evening Mike found an envelope from Paradise Rewards among his
mail. Man, she’s quick. Inside was a gift certificate, dinner for two at the Hearth and
Chalice. Mike considered the Hearth and Chalice the nicest restaurant in the city. It was
also expensive. There was a sticky note pasted to the certificate.

Dear Mr. Wilson,
Hope you enjoy this. There’s also a

Loose Change- 10
little something for you at the Sartorium.

Well, she sure knows what buttons to push. Mike bought his clothes at the
Sartorium. The older businessmen in town shopped at Weldons, the city’s landmark
clothier, but the younger set favored the Sartorium's hip, cutting-edge fashion. The note
was signed “Ruth” with a flourish that ended in a tiny heart. There was a P.S. “If you get
a chance could you take a look at the other material I’ve sent? Thanks, R.”
Mike pulled two letter-sized sheets out of the envelope. A questionnaire. He
glanced at the personal information section. Age, Sex, Marital Status? and beyond that,
How many TVs? How much do you watch? He flipped to the second page. Magazine
subscriptions? It looked like standard demographics. Must be high-end judging by the
generosity. He dropped the sheets on the table and went for a beer. He looked at the
blinking light on the answering machine. He hit the ‘play’ button and settled into his
chair. The first message was Janine.
"Mike, I'm sorry about yesterday. I was completely out of line. I hope we're still
on for Friday. I'll make it up to you, promise."
It was nice when these things just sorted themselves out. And Friday night with
Janine, that would be good.
#
The Sartorium, in the heart of the commercial district, was two blocks from
Mike’s office. Mike walked through the lunch-time street traffic, stopping to admire the
window display before he stepped inside. Kevin, the Sartorium’s manager, didn’t just do
window displays. He told stories. In today’s scene a man stooped to tie his shoe, his foot

Loose Change- 11
up on a park bench, while his wallet was lifted from his pocket by another well dressed
man. Mike smiled. It’s those pockets. Nothing stays in them.
“Hey Mike. How’s it going?” Kevin was dressed to the same high standard he
sold. “I’m glad you stopped by. Somebody must like you.”
“Why’s that?” Mike asked.
“Somebody got you a pretty nice gift certificate.” He handed Mike an envelope
and Mike looked inside. The amount was stamped across the certificate in florid script:
Five Hundred Dollars.
A down payment on a new wardrobe. Mike looked at Kevin. "Do you know this
somebody?” Janine? That would be way out of her budget.
“Don’t you?” Kevin looked surprised. Mike shook his head.
“Well,” Kevin hesitated. “Shall we say she’s hot? Or is that crude? Smokin’ sort
of captures it.”
“I swear I don’t know this woman. Can you describe her?”
“Interesting thing. Her hair’s the same color as yours. That black that you don’t
see often, and long. Her features are perfect, not model-thin, fuller. A hint of Asian, but
not the first thing you would think of. Let me put it this way. If I know Mike Wilson, this
is a woman Mike Wilson really wants to know. If Mike Wilson sees this woman, he’s
gonna run her down like a cheetah on a gazelle.”
“Did she leave a name, a card, anything?”
“Nope. She paid cash. Said your name like it was the nicest thing she had in her
mouth all day.”

Loose Change- 12
“Well I’m stymied, Pal. Must have been the goddess of fashion hinting that it’s
time to update my wardrobe.” Mike looked at the envelope. “Can you hold onto this?
Credit it to my account? I’ll probably lose it otherwise.”
“I’ll give you a credit right now,” Kevin said turning to the register.
“Oh, another question, speaking of losing things.” Kevin looked up. “You know
the way the pocket on these new slacks is sliced way down?” Mike slid his finger down
the pocket opening of his slacks. “I’m dropping a lot of loose change out of these. It
doesn’t happen when I wear jeans.”
Kevin looked incredulous. “Loose change? Mike, let me explain something. The
cut is the style, and the pocket is the cut. Donate your loose change to charity, for
chrissakes. That’s what I do.”
#
By the time Mike got home he had made a decision. He would call Ruth... and say
what? Thank her for her generosity. See what happens. Let it happen. Mike thought
about Kevin’s description. And her voice, there was no forgetting that. He rummaged
through two days of mail looking for the card. It wasn’t there. He found the envelope and
questionnaire Ruth had sent, but there was no number on them, only a P.O. box. How’d I
lose that card? Oh, right. Mike Wilson, end-loser. But the number was easy, a toll-free
800 number with some kind of catchy acronym. What was it? 1-800-Go-South? 1-800You’re-It? 1-800-Too-Sweet? That was her voice. He searched through the papers
again. No luck. He looked at the questionnaire, hesitated, then began filling in the blanks.
Once finished, he folded the sheets and closed them with a sticky note:

Loose Change- 13
Ruth,
Thank you for the very generous “tokens.”
Please give me a call that I may properly
express my appreciation.
Mike

He added his phone number and stuffed everything into the envelope Ruth had
sent. He put on some jogging sweats and ran to the post office.
#
The next day was difficult. Mike had trouble focusing. His mind wandered to
anticipation of a call from Ruth. When he finally arrived home that evening, he felt outof-sorts. He checked the answering machine but there was nothing from Ruth. I need to
stop obsessing and concentrate on something else. He began sorting through the mail on
the table, discarding junk, stacking bills in the holder he had for that purpose. Halfway
through the pile, the phone rang.
“Hello?”
“Mr. Wilson? It’s Ruth Sipes. I’m glad I caught you.”
Mike thrilled at her voice. It sounded sexier than he remembered, and he matched
it with a mental image constructed from Kevin’s hints. “Hi, Ruth. I’m, uh... I’m glad to
hear from you... and you can drop the Mr. Wilson. Mike is fine.”
“OK, Mike. I wanted to thank you for sending in the questionnaire.”
Mike laughed. “It was the least I could do. You were extremely generous.”

Loose Change- 14
“That’s just our way of saying we value your trust. You know, some of your
answers on the questionnaire were very interesting. I passed it on to Madeleine. She’s our
coordinator. She’d like to get together and talk with you sometime. At your convenience,
of course.”
Mike hoped that would mean meeting Ruth. After all, that’s the point, isn’t it?
“Well, I’m pretty flexible,” he said. “I work for myself, you know. One-man operation. I
could make some time tomorrow afternoon if that would work for you.”
“That would be terrific. We’re in the Bartlett Building, downtown. You know
where it is?”
“”Yes.”
“Would two o’clock work?”
“Two o’clock is fine.”
“Great, Mike. I’ll see you then. I’m looking forward to meeting you.”
She’ll be there, Mike thought, smiling.
#
It was 1:58 when Mike arrived at the Bartlett Building. He felt excitement mixed
with an uncharacteristic nervousness. It occurred to him that he had no idea why these
people wanted to meet him. He was here only because he’d become obsessed with a
voice on the phone. Obsessed is strong. I’d say intrigued. I’m intrigued by a voice on the
phone. He stepped into the building. A doorman stood in the lobby.
“May I help you, Sir?
“I’m looking for Paradise Rewards.”
“And your name?”

Loose Change- 15
“Mike Wilson.”
The doorman fingered the intercom. “Ruth? Mr. Wilson is here.”
“Send him right up.” Ruth’s voice, Mike was sure.
At the 5th floor, the elevator doors opened onto a spacious reception area.
Sumptuous furniture lined the walls and floor-to-ceiling windows framed an urban
panorama. An attractive blonde woman rose from behind the reception desk and strode
toward him.
“Mike? I’m Ruth Sipes. So pleased to meet you.” She grasped his hand in both
of hers.
Mike stared at her confused. But, you can’t be. She was certainly attractive, but
the dissonance between his fantasy and the woman before him was disconcerting. Ruth
did not seem to notice.
“What a beautiful day! It’s a shame to be stuck inside on a day like this, don’t
you think?”
Mike agreed, forcing a smile. His eyes followed hers to the wall of glass. The day
was drenched in sunshine, a postcard Fall day. He hadn’t noticed until that moment.
“Why don’t you have a seat.” Still clinging warmly to his hand, Ruth directed
him to a couch near the window wall. “Madeleine will be with you momentarily.” She
indicated a door that bore the legend, “Madeleine Winter.”
Mike settled onto the couch and watched Ruth’s retreating figure. He felt some
coins slip from his pocket and slide toward a crease between the cushions. Now what? he
thought.

Loose Change- 16
It was barely a minute before the door opened and Mike’s world flipped again.
Madeleine Winter stood and stared at him for what seemed like a very long time. Mike
stared back. Her eyes were emerald green flecked with butter yellow in the bright light of
the window-wall. Why didn’t Kevin mention those eyes? Her hair was indeed the
blackest black and long. It fell in thick waves about her face, broke across her shoulders,
and Mike imagined it tumbling down her back. She’s magnificent. Ruth’s voice was
forgotten. The fantasies that had entertained him were gone.
Ruth had risen from behind her desk. “Madeleine, I’d like you to meet Mike
Wilson. Mike, Madeleine Winter.”
“I’m very happy to meet you, Ms. Winter.”
“Please. Madeleine. We’re very informal here. I’m sure Ruth told you. May I call
you Mike?”
“Please,” Mike replied as she led him into her office, closing the door behind her.
“Have a seat, Mike.”
Mike wondered if he had enough change left in his pocket to make a proper
donation to the furniture. He made an effort to compose himself. Just let it happen.
“May I offer you a drink? Coffee? Water? Something stronger?”
“I’m fine,” Mike said. He settled into a chair. Madeleine perched on the edge of
the desk and then, as if repenting that, moved to the chair next to Mike.
“So, you’re single?” she asked.
Mike nodded. Cut right to the chase, gazelle.
“Never been married?”

Loose Change- 17
He shook his head, a confident half-grin tugging the edge of his mouth despite his
efforts to control it. The pleasure of looking at her was consuming. He hoped she’d keep
talking.
“It’s hard to believe no one’s hooked a trophy like you.” She was all invitation.
Mike heard it in her voice, saw it in her body language, the way she leaned toward him.
“I make it a point to swim only in catch-and-release streams.” He smiled.
Madeleine laughed and moved to push hair from her face, her fingers gliding through the
thick tangle.
“I deserved that. My fishing metaphor. I don’t even like fishing.”
“Neither do I.” Mike laughed.
Madeleine turned in her seat so she was facing him, their knees almost touching.
“Mike, on rare occasions, Ruth was one, I think you’re another, we come across someone
special, someone who can contribute more than just a few answers on a questionnaire or a
product test. Someone who can be a real asset to our company.”
Mike could smell her scent, warm, moist, like straw and crushed flowers.
“Would you consider coming to work for Paradise, Mike?” She looked at him,
her hair falling forward making a tunnel through which her eyes shone.
Mike hesitated. Work for Paradise? Are you nuts? "I’ve worked for myself since
I was nineteen. I don’t...”
“That’s part of the attraction,” she interrupted. “You’re independent-minded, selfmotivated. You don’t need a supervisor staring over your shoulder to get things done.”
“I have my clients...”

Loose Change- 18
“You can move into this at your own pace.” She put a hand on his forearm. “I
know you have the energy. You look like you have a lot of stamina. You set the pace,
Mike. Are you willing to take a chance?”
“Would I be working under you?”
The tip of her tongue drew a line along the gloss of her upper lip, caressing the
serrations of her teeth. “That’s a possibility.”
It’s too crazy, this woman, this place. Play along. Let it happen. “Alright,” Mike
said suddenly. “I’ll try it.”
Madeleine grasped both his hands in hers. “Great! Fantastic! Uhm... we’ll need
to do a routine physical. We can do that right down the hall... a little more paperwork and
then maybe you and I could have some dinner? I believe you have a reservation at the
Hearth and Chalice?”
Mike remembered his date with Janine. Shit. I'll have to call and cancel. Tell her
I'm working late. I can't pass this up. This is almost too easy. The gazelle is running right
at me.
#
The physician’s assistant was another beautiful woman. Mike wondered if beauty
was a requirement for employment at Paradise Rewards. He was pretty sure that would
violate some labor law. I won't turn them in.
The stethoscope wandered across his chest. “Deep Breath.” Pause. Move. “Let it
out slowly.” Pause. Move. “Again... now breathe normally.” She took his blood
pressure, pulse, looked at his eyes, ears, mouth. “You’re in excellent condition, Mike. Do
you work out?”

Loose Change- 19
“I like to run. I do some weights, and racquetball. I like racquetball.”
“Have a seat over here. I just need some blood and you’re done.”
Mike hesitated. Blood? I have to give blood to get a date now? Oh, well, what's
that saying? In for a penny... He watched as the needle slid painlessly into the vein.
Interesting. She’s pushing the plunger. Pushing, slowly pushing. A click. A pause. Oh,
right. Now she’s pulling, drawing the blood. He watched the dark liquid flow into the
tube, conscious of the nearness of the woman. He looked toward her, she intent on the
syringe. He could see the texture of her skin, every pore, her cheek like a strawberry, to
be tasted. She smiled at him, her face very near.
“Do you feel dizzy? Sometimes people get a little dizzy when their blood is
drawn.”
“I’m fine,” Mike said. I do feel dizzy. “Actually I am a little woozy.”
“Here, why don’t you lie down.” She took his arm helping him up. “It’ll pass in a
minute.”
His legs were like anchors stuck in bottom mud. I’m not dizzy. I’m lethargic.
Lethargy... from Lethe, the waters of forgetfulness... I sink into the waters of
forgetfulness. He lowered himself onto the couch feeling warm hands on his arm, behind
his head, not caring. A coin fell from his pocket, bounced noisily and rolled toward a far
corner of the room.
#
Madeleine cradled a phone on her shoulder, the earpiece lost in the forest of her
hair. She moved things from her desk to a cardboard box. “Hello, Dr. Simmons?
Madeleine Winter. I have your donor... Yes. Male, Caucasian, about thirty. Perfect

Loose Change- 20
physical specimen... multiple organs, yes... No, no trauma... Comatose. no hope of
recovery. We’re preparing to transport... And thank you. It’s always a pleasure to be of
service. We’ll talk soon.” She replaced the phone on its cradle, unplugged it and placed
it in the box. She opened the door. “Ruth, honey? It’s time to pack up, darling. We’re all
done here.”
END


