The day after she was given her diagnosis, she began the letters. The doctors and her
husband assured her that she could tell her daughter these things herself, years later, but she
insisted.
She was sent to the best cardiologist in the state, a man in his late fifties who kept
photographs of his favorite patients and who fought against others’ failing hearts as though the
organs were his own personal enemies. She and the cardiologist got along well, and he assured
her that her prognosis was hopeful and positive. She smiled and assured him that she was both
hopeful and positive, but a mother has to be thorough, no matter the prognosis. The doctor
argued this was not reflective of a positive attitude, but she did not argue back, because she knew
in her damaged heart that she had to write the letters. Her husband and the doctor shook their
heads at her. But she had never been one to be deterred by head-shaking.
The three of them plotted the best course for treatment, then the doctor saw them out of
the cardiology wing and suggested a good local restaurant, where she and her husband enjoyed
an overly expensive lobster dinner. A silent agreement prevented them from discussing the
matter at heart; instead they discussed their daughter, who was nine years old and about to enter
the fourth grade. They agreed they would relent and buy her the light up sneakers she had
coveted for so long. No time like the present, after all.
The next day, she wrote her only child the first letter.

Dear Daughter,
This afternoon, I sat with your father on the back porch as we watched you do cartwheels
under the maple trees. It seemed like you would never tire of it. As I looked on, I remembered a

2
The Heart of the Matter

day in early summer eight years ago when you were just learning to walk. You hobbled on
chubby legs across your yellow blanket, which was spread across the grass, and stretched your
arms to the sky, squinting your eyes at the sun. I think you believed you could touch the yellow
ball of light, if you could just stretch a little further. I tried to get your attention away from the
sun, afraid you would hurt your eyes. Your father put his hand on my arm, shook his head at me,
smiled.
“Leave her alone,” he said. “She’ll learn too soon it’s out of her grasp.”
So I did as he said and settled back on my elbows, and I watched you. You opened and
closed your tiny hands, tilted your head, furrowed your brow with concentration. The summer
breeze ruffled your thin brown hair. For several minutes, you stood there on uncertain legs and
held up your arms to the sun, oblivious to the futility of your efforts.
A cloud soon floated over the sun, blocking it from your sight. Your eyes widened, your
rose petal mouth blossomed into a toothless grin. You turned to look at us as if to say, “I willed
that cloud to do that!” And we believed you. You looked back up to the sky, still holding up your
arms in a hallelujah, and laughed at the rays of light that burst out from behind the cloud.
Embrace the light, always; forget the uselessness of fear.

Her prognosis was considered positive because they had caught it early, despite the fact
that no one in her family had ever had what she now had: hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. The
cardiologist did not know why or how she had contracted the disease; he explained that many
times, it is unclear how and why the disease occurs and progresses. Her heart walls were slowly
thickening. The cardiologist prescribed blood thinners to ease the stress on her body. She felt

3
The Heart of the Matter

good on the blood thinners, after a while, once she had adjusted to the slight dizziness and
headaches that plagued her for the first few weeks of taking the medication. The cardiologist was
pleased with her quality of life. She went to see him once every few months, and he often called
between appointments to check in and make sure that they were winning the battle.

Dear Daughter,

When you were four, you told me you wanted to be a ballerina. I was not surprised, since
you had been twirling around the house since you could walk. We enrolled you in your first
ballet class. Every Tuesday and Thursday afternoon, as soon as we returned home after your
class, you would run to the mirror in the hallway, still in your black leotard and pink tights, and
practice what you had learned in front of your reflection. I can still remember the sound of your
voice, endlessly reciting, “First, second, third, fourth, fifth, back to first, all over again!” You
moved your feet and arms into the correct positions, over and over, grinning madly, until finally
it was as though your little body couldn’t contain itself any longer, and you burst into your own
dance, pirouetting, swinging your arms in the space around you, shrieking with laughter.
Try to remember yourself in such moments of unconfined joy, dancing for no other
reason than it made you happy. Indulge yourself in such dances often, laughing loudly, lifting
your arms towards the sun, pretending time does not matter, that it does not exist at all. I
promise you, you are never too old for dancing.
Last night, after your father and I tucked you in, we returned to the kitchen. He helped me
with the dishes after we shared a piece of chocolate cake. We were listening to the radio, trying

4
The Heart of the Matter

to keep quiet so as not to wake you. One of our favorite Van Morrison songs came on. Your
father walked up behind me and took the dishcloth out of my hand, tossed it back into the soapy
water. He turned me to face him and wrapped his arms around me, whispered a memory in my
ear. His hands on the small of my back guided me around the kitchen, effortlessly across the
white tile floor.
Marry a man who will dance with you into the mystic.

After four years on the blood thinners, her heart decided to rebel at about the same time
her daughter began to insist upon going to her first boy/girl sleepover. She and her husband felt
thirteen years old was too young for a coed sleepover, but their daughter went on for weeks
about how it was unfair that all her friends could go to the party but she couldn’t. It was a
stressful time in their household, but despite this stress, her cardiologist assured her that her
daughter’s pubescent actions were not the cause of the sudden worsening of her heart muscle.
“These things happen,” he said with a sympathetic shrug, and allowed her and her husband five
minutes alone in the exam room before he returned to plot their next attack.
Tests were ordered, she was poked and prodded by inept interns, all of whom appeared to
have missed the lecture about how to properly, painlessly, insert a needle into a vein. The
cardiologist’s nurse, a large breasted, loud-laughing woman, brought her into a cold, dim room
and performed an echocardiogram while her husband held her hand, all three of them staring at
the image of her defective heart on the computer monitor. The images were not good enough and
the cardiologist ordered a cardiac MRI. She spent two hours surrounded by the plastic walls of

5
The Heart of the Matter

the donut-hole shaped machine, willing herself not to open her eyes to see how the walls were
closing in on her.
The results of the tests came in, and her cardiologist was not pleased. Even with all of her
appointments over the past four years, even though she had not shown any signs of fatigue or
shortness of breath until recently, her heart had deceived the doctor. Her heart muscle was too
thick now; it was causing damage that could lead to fatal heart arrhythmias. The cardiologist
delivered the disheartening news: surgery would be necessary. An open-heart surgery was the
best option with the best outcome. They scheduled the surgery for early July, one month away.
On the drive home her husband pulled over at a gas station, where she got out of the car
and walked inside to use the restroom. She paused on her way back to the vehicle and observed
her husband, who was not paying attention to her because he was shaking with sobs over the
steering wheel. She had only seen him cry once before, when his mother had passed away six
years ago. The sun was out and the breeze was warm, but she tightened her sweatshirt around her
to keep away the chill that shook through her body. She watched her sobbing husband for several
minutes, until his shoulders slumped down and he was still. After a few more moments, he
straightened up and settled back in his seat as though nothing had happened. She continued her
walk back to the car and slid into the passenger seat.
Taking her husband’s hand in her own, she said, “I love you.”
He smiled at her and squeezed her hand. “Love you, too.”
They sat silently for a few moments, each staring out the windows at the people walking
in and out of the gas station. She could sense he wanted to say something, but knew that he
would speak when he was ready.

6
The Heart of the Matter

Finally he turned to her again. “Please tell me you’re going to beat this.”
“I’m going to do my best,” she assured him.
He did not say anything for a moment. Finally he frowned and said, “The letters.”
“What about the letters?”
“Why do you write them? You can tell her these things yourself later. It’s like you’ve
already given up.”
She shook her head. “I have no intention of giving up,” she said. “But I can’t bear the
thought that if the worst does happen, she’ll be left with none of this advice. I can’t tell her these
things now. She’s too young. The letters are just reassurance, for me. So that I know she’ll have
a piece of me if I’m ever not there.”
After a few more moments, he shrugged. “Okay,” he said, relenting. “If it makes you feel
better, write the letters. I’ll even promise to give them to her myself.”
As he kissed her, she felt the joy of being wholly alive, with the fluorescent light of the
sign on the side of the gas station flickering down upon them.

Dear Daughter,
We caved. You are at your first boy/girl sleepover tonight. I still think you are a bit too
young for this, but I am willing to let go of my worries and to place my trust in you. Earlier this
evening, I drove you across town to your friend’s house. Before you got out of the car, you
admitted you were nervous. You’ve had a crush on Matthew for ages now, you confessed, and
some of the girls had threatened to lock you in the closet with him for a game of Seven Minutes
in Heaven. “Should I wear any lip gloss? What about gum? Mom, what if I’m bad at kissing?”

7
The Heart of the Matter

Your questions were endearing to me because they were the same questions I had wanted to ask
my mother so many years ago. I didn’t ask her those questions. But I answered yours. “Probably
don’t wear lip gloss. It might surprise him, and boys don’t like to have that on their lips like we
girls do. Mints are a better idea than gum, especially if he has braces. And here is a secret: no
one is good at kissing their first time.” With that last fact, your eyes opened wide in terror. I
rushed to assure you that in time you would learn to be an expert at kissing. This seemed to calm
your anxiety. You made me promise that I would tell you stories of my first adventures in kissing
the next day over a batch of cookie dough, and I had difficulty not leaping out of my seat to
celebrate my new Cool Mom status.
I can’t believe you are thirteen years old. When you have children you will understand
how quickly time goes by, my dear. Do not waste time, do not mourn the passage of time, do not
attempt to prevent your children from growing up. Teach them what they must know, and let
them teach you. When you first become a parent, you will think you know everything you need to
know. But your children will inevitably and continually teach you things you hadn’t realized you
never knew. Let them.

The open heart surgery went well. Before sending her home from the hospital, the
cardiologist gave her strict orders to rest and to take things slowly for the next few months. She
was put on an extensive regimen of medication, which her husband administered several times a
day for a couple weeks, until he had to go back to work. She had a constant stream of visitors to
help her: her parents, her brother, her sister-in-law, her closest girlfriends. She made sure her
daughter was taken care of as well; she worried because just before the operation, her daughter

8
The Heart of the Matter

had gotten her first period. She fretted that she was not doing her job as a mother to help her
daughter through such important changes. So in between doses of steroids and pain killers, and
in between long naps in the middle of the day, she wrote another letter to her daughter. She
considered this letter to be one of the most important of all the letters she had written, which by
this time, after four years, numbered close to one hundred, all handwritten on creamy, ivory
paper that years later her daughter would imagine still held the scent of her mother’s rose and
lavender scented perfume.

Dear Daughter,
We have told you for the past four years that though my heart condition might slow me
down, it would not stop me from living a long life. I still hold onto this hope, but it would be my
biggest regret if I took time for granted and left you with these things unsaid. If anything should
happen to me, these are the things you should know.
Don’t be tempted to wear body glitter to prom; it might sound like a good idea at the
time, but you will forever afterward cringe at the pictures of yourself looking like a disco ball.
Also, many girls think it is romantic to lose their virginity at the after-prom parties, but
believe me when I say that there are more romantic times and places. My first time was with
your father when we were eighteen, one summer afternoon, in a field that smelled like hay and
freshly tilled dirt. His car was parked near us, with the doors open, and we could hear a
Fleetwood Mac song playing on the radio. It may not sound romantic to you, but my point is that
when you have sex for the first time, it should be with someone you care about, who cares about
you, and it should be special to both of you in a way no one else completely understands.

9
The Heart of the Matter

If Fate does not allow me to attend your wedding, here is my advice. During the
ceremony, fix your sight upon your love, and focus on him and him only. At the reception, do not
drink much, dance to all your favorite songs, and take time to sneak away with your new
husband so that you can have a few minutes alone. Your wedding will be emotional for your
father. Please spend some time with him before the ceremony and during the reception, to
remind him that he was the first man you ever loved, and that you will always consider yourself
his baby girl. He may act stoic, but do not believe it. He loves you more than life itself, and
letting you go into the arms of another will be difficult for him.
It breaks my heart to accept that I may not be able to tell you everything you must know,
that I may not be able to answer every question you have. But here are some of the remaining
things on my mind today: Do not be fooled by boys who look away from you when they tell you
they love you. Don’t forget about or neglect the things that make you happy, such as dancing,
reading, playing piano, climbing trees. Travel.
Above all things, reach for joy and grasp it in the palm of your hand like you tried to
grab the sun that summer day twelve years ago when you were just learning how to walk. Hold
the light within you.

Three months after her surgery, the cardiologist determined that she was well enough to
go back to her normal lifestyle, with the stipulation that she remain cautious. The operation had
repaired most of the damage, but it was still possible that arrhythmias could occur and disrupt
her heart’s normal rhythm at any moment and lead to heart failure. Arrhythmias, the cardiologist
informed them, were what most often led to sudden cardiac death.

10
The Heart of the Matter

She and her husband took their daughter to the coast for a long weekend in October. The
tourists were gone, and the beach was quiet and mostly deserted. A family friend had let them
use his seaside cottage for the weekend, and they spent their time either on the deck of the
cottage or down on the beach, collecting sea glass and watching the waves roll in. One evening
while her husband was cleaning up in the kitchen, she and her daughter took a long walk on the
beach. The cold water rushed over their feet as they made their way along the wet sand of the
shore. They had a heart-to-heart.
Her daughter asked questions about her condition, some she’d asked before, some she
had not. As they made their way across the sand, her daughter hesitated before she posed a
question she had never asked before. “Are you going to make it, Mom?” Her daughter’s voice
trembled as it used to when she had crawled into bed with her and her husband after a nightmare
and told them about the terrors in her dream-world.
“I’m going to try my hardest, sweetheart,” she answered as she draped her arm over her
daughter’s thin shoulders. She could not promise anything better.
She celebrated her fortieth birthday in November. Thanksgiving came, then Christmas,
New Year’s. She went in for a checkup in February. The cardiologist listened to her heart
through his stethoscope and made grim faces. She told him she’d been experiencing fatigue and
heart palpitations, symptoms of the possibility of those dreaded, fatal arrhythmias. Her doctor
gave her strict orders to closely monitor her condition and to take things as slowly as possible.
He didn’t need to tell her there was nothing more they could do but hold out hope that her heart
would heal itself. She understood.

11
The Heart of the Matter

On their way home, her husband made a sudden detour, and she knew without asking
where he was going. They drove to the same field where they had made love for the first time
over twenty years ago. Her husband parked the car and turned off the ignition, leaving the radio
on. They held each other for a long time.
“Damn it,” he mumbled as he stroked her hair. “I’m scared.”
“So am I,” she said. “I don’t want to leave you behind.”
She pressed her ear against his chest and listened to the steady, strong hum of his
heartbeat. She closed her eyes and spoke. “And I’m jealous of you.”
“Why?”
“You get to be with her, and I don’t.”
He pulled her closer, and for a long time, they told each other all the things that could no
longer wait to be said. When he kissed her, she felt thirsty – for him, for life, for everything she
would not have. And then, with only the sky and the rippling waves of timothy grass as witness,
they conveyed the rest in words unspoken, moving slowly, as if they had all the time in the
world.
That night, she wrote one more letter to her daughter. Exhaustion forced her to keep the
letter short.

Dear Daughter,
Remember, my darling, all that I have told you, in our conversations and through these
letters. Do not spend your life in mourning. Do not be afraid. Reach for the sun and go forth,
onward, onward, into the light.

12
The Heart of the Matter

That night, she dreamed she was back on her wedding night, in the garden with her new
groom, under the canopy of white lights and stars – a ceiling of glory and promise. Music echoed
from the reception hall, notes of Otis Redding singing a lover’s prayer. Her husband mumbled
the words in her ear as he held her, the two of them swaying back and forth, lost to everything
else. The lawn under her bare feet was cool and damp with dew. The breeze smelled as she
remembered it had that night – freshly cut grass, vanilla cake, and something new. The fresh,
powdery scent of her newborn daughter’s skin after a bath. Her love’s hands on the small of her
back guided her effortlessly in small, dizzying circles. As he dipped her backwards, she opened
her eyes to see the white lights above her twinkling and blurring into a vision of blinding,
dazzling radiance.


