8 months, 12 days. Oh the idea of which makes my mind wonder.
For how I will decapitate the dead. From chopping their heads
off to a shot to the head. As they reach for me I'll smile as they
burn to their death. Upon which I see a building not too far from
me. I walk towards it with ease as I lock the doors and look
through the windows of he. Digging through the pantry I see
food supplies and just enough for the two of me. I pack them
away as I continue up stairs and to my amaze I see another suit
case with a bunch of lays. I smile from ear to ear as I am
surprised by the fact that someone even left these here. As I
continue the days in which I realize I'm all alone in this worldly
hell. I take a sip of water as I see a horde coming after me, the
fact of life makes me question my idea to hide. So into the bag I
go and take out a machete and knife.. For what I'm about to do
is for my own life.. I mustn't run or hide I must follow wherever
the Lord decides to bury my mind. For as I speak they are
approaching.. I take one out as blood splatters over me. The
idea of survival is becoming a lost memory of what I once knew..
For I have yet to see another man and I'm starting to question if
I even knew.. But I must not give up, I must continue to fight.
For if you give up you might as well lay down and die.. It's been
many months since it all began, I'm not quite sure where my
mentality stands.. I think I saw Jim the other day. Working on
his truck as he waved at me and I continued my day.. I know I'm
going crazy but I can't seem to shake it.. Food is no longer an
issue for me.. I just might end it today, I thought about it last
night as I sat on the porch while one of them tried to get
through the electric fence. Funny I thought it was.. Sad to see
old Jim go but I must continue down this lonely empty road..
Driving through this mind like abyss, I begin to question life as I
look through windows thinking " How could we do this? ". A
small tear begins to shed as I hit the accelerator to mow over
the read. From the splatter of blood to the hearts of the young.
All I see are the faces of the hopeless ones. Some may walk
away or think about ending it all, I musnt allow this hell to
overcome this downfall. Though as things in this hell seem

tough what we must do is trust less and survive more. A guy
tried to stop me the other day, said his kid needed help so they
could get through another day. I got out of the car as my heart
wouldn't let me leave. A small smirk on his face is all I needed
to see, his son tried to pounce up with a knife. He was holding a
gun as he tried to hide. Without thinking I instinctively shot.. A
loud bang could be heard through the rocks. Two more people
are now dead, how the hell can I keep going when all I see are
the living dead!?.. Such a cliche line I know but it's all I can
think about as I feel like I'm on death row. This road never
seems to end, a sick to my stomach feeling I get as I pull over to
catch my breath. A feeling of fire burns my eyes as I slowly look
to the sky, smoke fills the air as my lungs begin to gasp. Taking
a deep breath as I try not to collapse. After closer examination I
see another human being or is it just me?.. I shout but not a
sound in sight, I slowly move my feet as I see the darkness
cover the light..
After awhile of being out in this place of hell on earth as it
seems now and days, I take a closer look back at the life I once
lived. Such a peaceful time but now everywhere I step is
another one dead. The area I was once looking at turned out to
just be a figment of my imagination. I swore I saw a man but I
guess that's what happens when you vision a life outside of
your own head.. This place is what makes my brain go insane.. I
heard someone cry the other day, I jumped out of my seat as it
turned out to be geese flocking in the streets.. I can't tell
human sounds from the others, my heart struggles to find
another.. Why do I keep this rifle in my car? I ask myself every
day, there's no one to kill but the visions of this worldly hell.. A
line I've used before I know but when you live on your own with
no one around, it tends to weigh on how you tend to think or
speak about different things.. No man in sight as I had once
screamed in delight.. Now I crave the touch of another.. It's
almost impossible to think about wanting to continue when you
doubt you'll see signs of life again. I pack the car with supplies
as I continue to try and bring this place alive, a couple things of
water and a handful of snacks, just something to get me by until
I reach the next place in which I'lll lay back and relax.. It's been

almost a year without a sign, maybe there's just no more good
anymore as I continue to find what I hope to see on the other
side..
Though I travel this lonely empty road, I often question the
existence of my very soul. For what purpose shall I take another
breath, to drink another bottle of water or look to my left. To
check every corner for close inspection, to make sure there
isn't just someone standing and watching my every presence. I
often ask these things as I set off into the future, a place unlike
no other as I hope to shape what's further. Thinking about
everything that has happened and what all has been going on, I
find it very odd to not find a single thing wrong. Everything
looks real and all but it seems to me that something is missing
from this mindless world.. Maybe I'm just hitting the point of
insanity, I can't exactly answer this question for no one is
around me.. Yep, there is goes. Talking to myself again, that's
all I ever hear, the same voice in between these ears.
I played a song the other day to keep my mind from fading away,
peaceful it was to listen to a little Marvin Gaye, I've never really
listened to him before so it was a different feel. Only problem
was I didn't have someone here to make a special cause we all
know the main reason you'd play him a loud, for the sway of the
hips and a kiss upon the lips sounds all so good. I shouldn't have
let this happen cause right now she'd be next to me.. But I
messed up, things got out of hand, remember Jim from the other
day who got electrocuted on my land?.. Well let's just say we
weren't always on the best terms at times, every now and then
I'd keep a watchful eye.. I knew what they had not known about
me for they tried to play it cool, acting like nothing was going on
but ha ha, I already knew.. I won't say all that happened but let's
just say I enjoyed seeing Jim screaming as he found out what
happened.. Oh the joys of a twisted mind, now he's laying on the
grass as I'm driving without care.. I know deep down there's
gotta be someone somewhere..

At upon my arrival at a stop of the unknown, I look up at the sky
as if I should know.. What happened and why am I here tis a
question I often ponder.. For what's the sole purpose of being
alone in this blazing sun. All of the water I've drank is pretty
much done. I have a few things left to eat but no nearly enough
to let me get by the rest of the way. I siphon a few tanks to help
me fill up so I can continue my quest to find another but I just
get this feeling inside that I'm the only other..

As I travel this far and endless road of land I just think to myself
of all the people who were once among men. For as I take deep
breaths and let the wind blow through my hair I simply glance up
at the sun simply without care. A large flair is shot, a puzzled
thought hits my mind. What am I seeing and is someone near?
Another one is let off as I begin to hear screams instead of
cheers. A man all bloodied and beaten runs in front of the car "
Get out, save yourself! ". Crazy is this man I thought.

Traveling not much further I see more and more people, they
don't look happy. Part of me is glad to see life again while the
other is heart broken at what I see, people being tormented and
filled with disease. A man is killed in plain sight, by a child
unlike no other as a tear forms down my eye. " Why the hell do
we live like this!? ". I think and shout out loud. Who the hell is
letting things like this happen and not giving a damn what's
around.

Getting closer to the town I go, the further I drive, the closer I
just don't wanna be alive. I drove by what had seemed to be a
man being crucified with his child next to him. Another burned
alive as people shout hateful remarks and tell him he has no
reason to stay alive. Through all of this I see one place in
particular that remains untouched and very beautiful at first
sight. A white polished look and flags on its side. An almost

pride as it seems they're not bothered by what's going on
outside.

I drive as close as I can to the building as its being protected by
men in black suits, guns in arms as they simply smile as others
run in fear. No man dares come near this building as they'd be
shot without anyone shedding a tear. This place has made me
realize I preferred being alone, this is hell on Earth not a
heavenly home. Why this is happening I simply don't know, I go
against my gut feeling as I drive through the men in suits.
Plowing them over and ramming the gate, I manage to make it to
the front door and slam on the breaks. I open the door as I walk
in, I'm amazed by what I see.. For I know God himself is hurting
by men like these. People like this claim to be men of God but
they're lying through their teeth. They are only the liars of the
world as they shake their fists and roll the dice. Bets are placed
as they say their grace. How could they look above when their
hearts are made of black and not red. No crosses in their life but
a smirk from seeing the dead. I shout in pain as they get up from
their seats. " Intruder! " they shout as I hear the blare of a gun.
Barely missing me as I run to the next room.

Monitor after monitor I see, more money is placed on innocent
faces as they're forced to kill one another. You look at one face
and put a certain amount as you pray their say their grace. As
their eyes begin to close they minds are blown.. Corruption at its
finest I say as I refuse to live another day. For I refuse to let
them take me away, no man shall put a bounty on my head. I will
never take the life of another, even though I did plow through a
couple others. I stare at the monitors as I put a gun to my head..
I close my eyes as I begin to see bright beautiful lights. Gates
open as clouds form, for this is the way humans should
learn. The torment and abuse must end, the man upstairs is
tired of seeing is creations take more men. I take a hand as I get
my wings, he reads my sins as I keel over and bleed..


