“I missed dinner,” I say to Gerald. He’s not saying anything to me at the moment
because he is concentrating on folding a letter in exact thirds. You can hear the scrape of the
paper as the edge tucks into the first fold. I imagine all the molecules of the paper fibers slowly
flattening under the pressure of his forefinger as it moves from left to right. Then he makes the
second fold and there it is, perfect thirds, flat and ready for the next part of the procedure, but
Gerald is looking at it more like it’s a small, dead reptile. Outside the apartment there is a hush
with a whoosh layered over it, the kind you get when there’s not too much traffic and a light rain
grabbing the occasional tires.
We’re in Gerald’s apartment, a ground floor garden one on a side street. The garden is
bigger than the apartment. I thought he should enclose part of it, make a solarium or something,
but who am I kidding? Gerald can’t get move on anything. Gerald is stuck.
The light overhead has only one bulb working, giving a weak beam onto these Civil War
candlesticks he insisted on acquiring. They’re on the dining table next to the stacks and stacks of
tax documents. Gerald does free lance accounting in addition to the regular accounting he does
from 9-6 at a firm in New Jersey. Reverse commutes every day on the PATH train. Actually
that’s how I met him, because he did my taxes. I got on to him through an ex-boyfriend who
gave me Gerald’s name as a parting gift – he knew how much I hate taxes. I hate preparing taxes
even more than I hate paying them. I’m not a Republican or Libertarian —it’s just that my
paycheck always looks so forlorn and friendless afterwards, so stripped of possibilities, so-If I were completely honest, that’s a bit of a cover-up statement on my part to say I hate
preparing them, because I have never actually prepared a tax form in my life. My dad used to do

1

Orphans
it for me. He’d put a wrinkle across his forehead and mutter while the stereo whipped madly
around to the strains of La Traviata or La Boheme and other trilling operas and piece together the
sorry bunch of disorganized receipts I’d managed to collect from the previous 12 months. Or 20
months. I also wasn’t that good at keeping the years straight. It also always seemed to be raining
when he was doing my taxes. Maybe that was because of typical spring weather, but it sure set
the mood. The problem with Dad was he wouldn’t do them last minute. He also didn’t believe
in the extension, at least not for me. Said once you started bending deadlines you got into
trouble. If I wanted to have them done for free then I would have to get them to him by March
15. A whole month ahead of deadline. But I couldn’t ask Dad, not anymore.
“You know,” I said to Gerald at our first tax meeting, “my father would always say,
“declare everything
--“and claim everything,” Gerald broke in. “Of course. That’s what you’re supposed to
do.” I’m 5’2 on a good day; He’s at least 6 foot 2, broad shoulders, terrifying eyebrows. My
father didn’t have any eyebrows that you could see, just wispy blond gray things. Gerald looked
at me down his arched nose, the kind you’d put on a prize fighter before they broke it in the ring.
“Audrey.” Just that. It didn’t sound good. I waited, sure to find out that I was not going
to be able to avoid the long arm of the IRS, that this time I was going to have to pony up money I
really didn’t have. Favors, patience, but at least I could say I had never asked Dad for a loan;
asking Dad for anything was not an option any more anyway.
“You are, by far, the very worst honest person I’ve ever had to prepare for.” Was that
good or bad? “Congratulations, of a sort,” he continued.
“But I thought I had claimed too many deductions in the first place.” But he went on as
though I hadn’t interrupted.

2

Orphans
“-- and you have been sufficiently charitable if not wise, what with Brazilian rainforests,
refugee artists in Africa, and the West Side Food Bank, to reduce the amount owed to $337 and
43 cents. We could have” – and he scrunched his impressive eyebrows at me – “found this out
earlier if you had attempted organization and if you’d chosen to contact me prior to April 12.” I
always make deadlines and work and I have never missed a plane or a train in my life, although I
do come blood-poundingly close at times.
“Wow, altruism for profit,” I said.
“Ms. Hilburn, nicely put!” He actually smiled. Gerald, I would learn, had a thing for
one-liners. So, bingo there I was, out of the frying pan and, into an unexpected friendship. Just
the two of us. I soon found thought that I couldn’t share Gerald with my other friends too well-he doesn’t even text.
Gerald is seated, if you can call it that, in front of an antique writing desk. Not exactly the
place for a laptop and modem --sometimes his place feel like an historical re-enactment when
I’m with him. It’s made of polished wood with lots of nice little drawers, each for dedicated
purposes of pens, and paperclips and stamps.
Gerald hooks one heavy finger through the little brass handle on one of these drawers and
pulls out a set of cream envelopes with gold edges. Formal and elegant. He inches the box crate
he’s sitting on over slightly, gets out his pen and writes the address down. I’m getting antsy and
start migrating around while he’s writing ‘Miami Shores’. A scratching noise and then a ‘thit’ as
he pushes the letter inside. The letter-containing envelope is lying down, flat except where the
unsealed flap sticks up, expectant. Gerald is immobile, gazing at something beyond my right
shoulder, not making a sound. It’s getting unbearable.

3

Orphans
“There was this woman,” I say. “I heard her on some late night talk show. She’s all
excited about finally getting married ‘cause she’s like 37 and her mom says she can’t attend.
Guess why?” His eyebrow goes into an absolutely perfect V of inquiry. Like a cartoon. Gerald
has lots of obscure talents.
“-- she had already bought plane tickets to some tropical vacation place for the same date
as the wedding and she couldn’t cancel. The tickets weren’t refundable! Really! -- doesn’t come
to her only daughter’s wedding. Now that’s something to write home about.”
It was after my second tax return that we went to Central Park. I got a gourmet take out
picnic and met Gerald at the lake above the carousel. It was unusually hot last spring, everything
was blooming like mad and all the wonderful paths in the Park were exploding in daffodils and
magnolias. Squirrels were running over each other, everybody was smiling, three cellists were
playing—cellos! The roller skaters were doing their sinuous curves. Against this glorious
backdrop, Gerald reaches out, holding his Moroccan chicken baguette in his meaty hand and
gestures toward the skyline perimeter of the enormous rectangle that makes up the Park: fancy
hotels, elaborate pre-war buildings, museums with towers.
“Fantastic, aren’t they, Audrey? From here you get such a great view of the
architecture.” I could have killed him. Buildings? when all this life is around? Now it’s a year
later and he’s not made a move. He’s still dodging the issue.
“Gerald, have you ever been to Florida?” Gerald is one of those people that actually
prefers winter—he’s a damp sponge all summer long. “You could go, you know. Just go down
there, be face to face, not just stay in Manhattan forever and think about what should be.”
“Why would I do that?”
“Because! Then you could talk to her.”

4

Orphans
“We don’t talk.”
“She’s your moth-“---Did you see this,” he says, bringing over a vase with shepherds and prancing lambs
etched into the silver. “1820’s. See the silversmith mark?”
“Ugly,” I say and put it back on the mantelpiece. Gerald has a usable marble fireplace,
right in New York City, but he never sets it up.
“It’s the real thing.”
“Not for me.” I put my hands up warding off the inevitable, because he knows exactly
what I mean. Gerald has already sat down abruptly, with a thud on a packing crate and is
looking arrested.
There are always a lot of packing crates in Gerald’s apartment. It’s a good thing that there
are because, for someone who is obsessed with furnishings, there usually isn’t any available
chair to sit down on. He’s either receiving antiques or sending them off to get repaired, or
thinking about either of the above. The dining table is covered with work, the couch hasn’t come
yet. Until the couch is right he maintains, he can’t start organizing his living room and getting rid
of the crates and finally, truly, start living in his apartment.
“You got any food?” I am downright hungry.
“V&M?” he offers. V&M is the Venus and Mars diner, way over on 11 th Avenue. Down
at heel, but reliable. No goat cheese, no balsamic, no free range anything. They don’t do modern
at all. Needless to say, Gerald loves it. And so do I. The owner’s wife cooks. Our favorite is
mashed potatoes –the real stuff--and meatloaf. It’s good and thick and never disappoints. But
there’s no time for that now, it’s already after 10 and it’s not even on the way. I aim for the

5

Orphans
kitchen and prowl out of sight for cookies, peanuts... At last I find temporary salvation: a box of
stale saltines.
“Ger, when’s that couch coming?” I shout in his direction.
“Soon enough. If those people…..” I can fill in the rest of the sentence in my head:
‘those miscreants who can’t follow a blueprint, those fools who declare themselves experts in
fine furniture making… “correct the mistakes.” As to the letter, I know what it’s is about. I
don’t have to read it: Gerald is trying for a correction.
It’s Monday night and the restaurants are closed in this part of town. It’s April 15 th
today, so the deadline to file is tonight. My friends at work file extensions, but it’s just not the
Hilburn tradition. I shouldn’t wait until the very last minute, on the knife’s edge, like I do with
so many things and get the forms done with some time to spare, for once. It’s way past 10:00
now and I’ve gone from hungry to blood-sugar-drop starving but a half –eaten deli sandwich is
the only thing left in my fridge at home and it’s too far away at the moment. I’ll scrounge for
dinner after my return is in the postal pipeline. The last mail pickups have already been made
hours ago in all the mailboxes everywhere. The only remaining option—my favorite—is the
main post office, which takes up an entire city block and looks like a Court of Justice building.
Huge Corinthian columns and dozens of steps worn smooth by countless feet, brass doors and
noble inscriptions up on top. It’s one hell of a post office and it never closes. You can get
anything date-stamped reliably here and the postmark is what we’re after, what I’m after
anyway, and we have 33 minutes max left, to actually leave and arrive on time. After midnight it
will be too late. My father would never have allowed this. My father’s ashes are shuddering in
the grave as I flirt with becoming a citizen disaster, but my return is done. I even signed in all the
right places the first time around and have secured the check for $167.32 to it with a paperclip.

6

Orphans
Signed, sealed, but not delivered. That is because I did not get the necessary papers to Gerald
until yesterday.
It’s Gerald’s third tax return for me. Each time, I pay a smaller amount back to the IRS.
Gerald’s competence is not in Gerald’s favor, because I’m supposed to match the amount I owe
the IRS with a dinner out. Pretty soon we’ll end up at McDonalds instead of some lovely upscale
place.
“You can’t sue her!”
“Why ever not?”
“It—you just can’t do that. What’s exactly are you suing for, anyway?”
“Damages, Audrey. Life Damages.” He sighs.
“Isn’t that supposed to come from a lawyer?”
I pick up the newspaper lying out on the counter as I work my way down the wax paper
sleeve of nearly weightless crackers. How could anything so insubstantial be so noisy? Pictures
of the hurricane in Miami, branches flying through the air and all the telephone wires dead.
“Still no landmines…” What? That was a misread—no landlines.
“Nobody died. Isn’t that remarkable for such a big storm?”
“Who died?”
“I said, no one died.”
“Where?”
“Gerald! Pay attention.” And I crackle the paper at him, pointing at the photo of
uprooted things. “Florida!” The letter is still unsealed, the book of stamps nearby.
You could say I owe Gerald for rescuing me every year at the last minute, but this is what
I do for Gerald: I get him out. Take him places. Ethiopian restaurants, slam poetry

7

Orphans
performances at the Nuyorican…the International Film Festival --“Audrey, this is where the
Waverly was. A classic movie theatre! What have they done to it?” “Well, Gerald, they still
show movies. It’s the IFC now. We journeyed out to the Aquarium by Coney Island where he
kept commenting on the likeness of the walruses to his relations. Look, there’s Aunt Lucia—
whiskers and all. --Come on, she couldn’t have had that much face hair --You have no idea how
furry an Italian blood line can be.” I couldn’t tear him away to the roller coaster for nothing,
even though he’s only ten years older than me, for God’s sake.
“Audrey, you’d better get that uptown now. I appreciate your love of the last minute
dash, but it’s past 11:00 and it’s raining.” He means there won’t be any available taxis. But I
have a car, even if he prefers to ignore this useful fact. It’s not as crazy as it sounds. I actually
have a permanent parking spot for it by my apartment in Brooklyn, but that’s another story. For
a city that is so dedicated to mass transit, there’s been a lot of downtime on the subway this year,
especially once the commute crush is over. Cars are more useful in New York than you would
think. Now is the opposite of rush hour where everything seems to go into suspended animation
as NYC melts into midnight. The minutes are dragging, my stomach is growling even after 20
saltines. He pushes my envelope, the IRS one, at me. His envelope is just lying there.
“I’m not going yet. The post office is only 37 blocks away—that’s not even two miles.
And I’m waiting for you!”
“For what?”
“Forever stamps. What do you think?”
“I should send this certified mail,” and he starts peeling off the stamps s-l-o-w-l-y.
Gerald filed his taxes a month ago. He always gets a refund, but he never tells me how much.

8

Orphans
It’s raining harder now. All of a sudden it isn’t funny anymore this dashing at the last
minute. I really could miss the deadline. I have to stop living like this—I feel childish and
stupid and badly want one of Dad’s terrible cups of Nescafe if I can’t have Dad -- but wishing
doesn’t do anything. It’s not real. Crying makes everything too real, which is why I don’t. Not
even at the funeral.
“Don’t rush me,” says Gerald. “I have to evaluate this. Even if I send it certified they
can’t make her sign for it, that could be the same as sending it regular and have it go astray. I
couldn’t be sure. If she didn’t answer I wouldn’t know if it was because she didn’t receive it or
refused to read it.”
Gerald has been working his way up to this moment as long as I’ve known him. One
thing I’ve realized over the past few years is that you have to make deadlines that you’ll actually
pay attention to. Gerald totally believes in the April 15th, even though he files plenty of
extensions for his clients. But not for him or me. I had coaxed him into agreeing to do
something about his situation by using the same deadline as taxes. Which means his deadline is
my deadline and I need to go. Now!
“You have to come with me to watch the car. You know I can’t leave it. I can get a
certified mail form for you while I’m there.” He’s thinking that that means it will be April 16
before the letter is mailed certified...If he mails it tonight regular, then…If he waits till morning,
indecision is going to bury him.
“Now, or” — I rattle the keys at him. “You are going to come with me. Mail it now,
whatever it is you’ve actually got there. Do something.”
“How is it that for someone who only weighs 100 pounds soaking wet you sure can push
your weight around?”

9

Orphans
“Stop trying to act offended. You’re just trying to get out of it!” He pushes off the
packing crate when I say that, stands up and his eyes grow cold and hard.
“Audrey, you should try to get out of something. You are always trying to get into
something and that something is usually a mess.” It’s the most he’s said all evening.
“And this?” I gesture grandly to his apartment that is still waiting to be lived in. I can
cop some of his moves. “None of this is going to get better because of a perfect couch. You have
to talk to her, not make some grammatically correct challenge.” Gerald grabs me by the
shoulders like you would a child you were going to yell at, then leans towards me as though -- as
though he were going to kiss me? I make a decision. I am not going to be delicate about this
anymore.
“If you bring a lawsuit-- if that’s the letter you’ve decided to write, you’re making such a
big mistake. It’s like when I was trying to get you on the roller coaster— it’s fun because you
know you’re not going to fall all the way, you’re not going to actually hit ground and lose
everything. Falling is a whole lot sweeter than landing!” Gerald lets his hands drop and his eyes
go back to simply being fierce and his mouth crimps down into a line like he’s just made a
decision too. Then suddenly he’s all smiles and, looking like he’s finally glad to see me this
evening, takes the cracker wrapper out of my hand and lays it down.
“Come, button up,” he says as though I have not been standing there forever with my coat
still on. And all of a sudden we’re actually moving and grabbing our outside things, apartment
doors and building doors opening, closing, and locking behind us as we emerge from the tiny
warm inside and face into the big, spitting wet of the world.
Gerald, with the objects of our separate missions tucked under his arm, thrusts open his
huge black umbrella over the two of us because mine naturally is broken already, third one in

10

Orphans
two months, at 5 dollars a pop you get what you pay for. I know, I know, Dad, but if they don’t
break I’m going to lose them anyway. Who wants to spend money they don’t have on something
they know they’re going to lose?
Two blocks later we get to the car. It’s Dad’s car. The handles always stick. I wrench
the door open on the fourth or fifth try but the tug makes me drop what I’m balancing and my
purse springs open, spilling everything. The rain is pelting; Things are not going well at this
precise moment. Half of the items on the cement should not be getting wet at all like the sugar
packets or the Kleenex, or my high school copy of Oliver Twist. Oliver had a big wet city to
deal with too.
“Who says we don’t have monsoons in New York,” says Gerald as he eases himself in.
“Thankfully we can rely on the intrepid U.S. mail ‘Neither snow, nor rain, nor heat, nor gloom of
night will stay these couriers
-- “or you and me” I cut in.
“from their accustomed rounds.” I get out of the tight squeeze parking space in only 2
turns thanks to the fantastic turning radius of Dad’s Honda CRX -- and off we go up 10th Ave,
the plan being to cut over east on 30th till we get to 8th Ave and we’ll practically be there. One
street after another recedes as I negotiate us ever closer, not a single taxi in sight. Gerald keeps
clutching the grab bar which really isn’t necessary. I’ve only ever had one fender bender since
I’ve known him and that wasn’t my fault. Really.
Five blocks, ten blocks, it’s 11:25, we hit traffic on Monday at midnight. Some
enormous truck could not form itself into the bends required to enter a side street. We are stuck.

11

Orphans
“This is not good, Ger.” Six light changes. We’re still not moving. Now it’s 11:39 and
we’re crawling on 30th , not yet at 8th . Finally Gerald relaxes his grip from the bar and starts
monologue- ing loudly about food options.
“Not now,” I yell, pulling into the next lane at last, jumping the red light just a little but
it’s enough to get us out and into the Postal Zone. There are scads and scads of white cars and of
course official trucks, all belonging to the U.S. Mail. There isn’t a single standing-only zone
anywhere! We have to go three whole blocks past the P.O. till there’s an unoccupied fire
hydrant space. 11:43.
“Move over in to the driver seat and it’ll be okay. Just stay here and look like you know
how to drive so I don’t get a ticket.” Oh, God a ticket that big will wipe out my refund. I can’t
afford it. I can’t afford the car either. I can’t afford anything.
“This will be five minutes. Wait till I get the umbrella open, I’ll come around.” I shove
the umbrella before me like a weapon, bolt out the car and around to the passenger side to Gerald
who’s holding both envelopes. He looks bleak.
“I don’t know Audrey. I don’t know if it’s the right one.” For a second I think he’s
talking about the post office.
“Jesus F. Christ! Of course it’s the right one. Just give them to me and move in to the
driver’s seat!” I yank the envelopes out of his hand and dash the three endless blocks back and
then up the many marble steps until I am in front of the doors but the lights are dim—I thought it
was the rain. The first door is locked tight. I try another and another door and they’re all locked.
I run down the steps halfway and go down the 33 rd street side. Security lights are on in the
corridors, no people inside. I am not computing this. Not computing at all. A uniformed guard
materializes out of nowhere.

12

Orphans
“What’s going on?”
“Closed.”
“But it’s always open!”
“Naw, they change it, few months ago. Not enough business. Internet. Changing times.
Closes 10 clock now,” he says. I can’t believe the Post Office has let me down!
“Come back at 8, it be open then.” Without the postmark my taxes are late. I’ve always
made Dad’s deadline. This was one thing I’d promised Dad I would do for him and I’ve let him
down. I’m suddenly so tired and lean my forehead against the wet brass door frame. Someone is
shouting something. Someone is always shouting something in New York, even at midnight in a
cold spring rain.
“Give me my letter back!” It’s Gerald. Splattered with raindrops, coming up behind me
at the top of the steps, grabbing his letter out of my hand, breathing hard. “If she doesn’t respond
then I won’t have anything left to hope for. I can’t risk it.”
“It doesn’t matter. You can’t send anything now —ask him.” The guard is annoyed.
“Is closed! You peoples come back tomorrow. Go on, go on now.”
“Gerald! “ I say, realizing. “You left the car!” I look up the avenue squinting hopelessly
and I know, even without being able to see: in the space where I had left Gerald there’s going to
be nothing, not with those vigorous postal police around.
“Did you leave the keys in it?”
“Of course not!”
“Geraaald! How could you leave the car!”

13

Orphans
“I didn’t think it would matter at midnight.” Gerald is suitably horrified at least.
“Actually—to use your favorite word—I wasn’t thinking about anything except reaching
you in time.”
I am flying down the steps. I am galloping up 8th avenue. They’re going to tow it, the
1998 CRX with the best turning radius ever. I arrive, gasping, at the fire hydrant place and it’s
empty. How could they possibly have towed it that quickly? They are inhuman. I’m looking
everywhere and all of a sudden I see it, a small white car on its hind wheels at the far end of
35th , already turning onto 9th . I’ll never catch it. I know it’s mine. When Gerald catches up he
hands me my keys.
So there we are. Up the creek. We missed the deadline, Dad’s car is off to jail, and I am
sadder than I can stand, sadder than I was at the funeral. It’s pouring rain, everything I am
wearing is extremely damp, and I miss Dad in the middle of my stomach, in the back of my neck,
everywhere. I am sobbing like Niagara, not ready to lose the last bit I had of him.
“I can’t take all this damn water,” I say.
“Come on, Audrey. Let’s get you out of this.” Magically, now there are taxis
everywhere: the shiny black street is filled with swishing yellow cars, like a rogue band of
cruising fish in an undersea highway. Dozens of taxis and half of them are available. Gerald
holds up a commanding arm and presto, one stops. In we climb and soon I am not sobbing
anymore, just sodden and washed out. Our midnight deadline game is over and I will join the
other millions who file for extensions. No more way to be special. Gerald is back to his old self
except a gentler one than I’m used to, giving the cabbie directions to V&M which is off one of
those random streets that don’t conform to Manhattan’s grid pattern.

14

Orphans
“No need to go to the tow pound now, you have to give them cash anyhow. I’ll go to the
bank in the morning and take it over. I owe you that much. After all,” he looks at me archly, “I
am getting a refund.”
“Why do you know about the tow pound?”
“There are things you know when you have lived somewhere long enough.” That doesn’t
fool me-- I’m on to him.
“Oh my God, you used to have a car and it got towed?” I punch his shoulder. “You do
drive!”
“If I have to, yes.” He’s holding the letter and it’s just a big smudge of ink.
“Can’t read the address anymore.”
“I know. I’m taking it as a sign.” He pockets it dismissively in his trench coat pocket,
crumpling the beautiful stationery.
“Ger, what’s really in the letter?” I ask, though of course I know, don’t I?
“Doesn’t matter.” It doesn’t, not right now, and I know he’s going to change the subject.
For once I’m not going to try and stop him.
“Mashed potatoes?” he asks.
“And gravy.” Late as it is, I’m not ready to go voyaging back to Brooklyn to my notanywhere-near-Park-Slope apartment share just yet. Gerald puts his arm around my shoulders. I
put my arm around his waist which is as high as I can reach without cramping. Comrades, we
lean into each other, we keep holding on as the taxi threads through the side streets towards
Venus and Mars.

15


