Jockey Charlie Beckler couldn’t remember the last time he’d
won a race and didn’t care.

He was sixty-two, divorced, no

kids, collecting a steady paycheck as the House Rider for Garden
State Park.

In other words, shooting pool and playing cards in

the jock’s room from the first until the last race.
If a jockey got hurt or refused to ride and no one was
willing to take his place, then the dentures came out and the
silks went on old Charlie.

This was rare; most jockeys jumped

at a chance to ride, even on a longshot, cuz you never know, you
might get lucky.

Therefore, Charlie only had to be

inconvenienced with riding in an actual race maybe two, three
times a month, tops.

Suited him just fine.

His career was

over, he’d never been a superstar, never rode in a Breeder’s Cup
or Kentucky Derby.

These days all he wanted was his weekly

paycheck and to win a hand or two at the card table.
And then freakin’ Bud Matteo had to go and name him on a
horse.

He was happily creaming Jacinto in a game of pool

between races when the hotshot young jockey asked, “You see
tomorrow’s entries?”

2

HOUSE JOCKEY
“No,” Charlie shrugged.

He hadn’t been listed on a horse

in over five years so he no longer bothered reading the race
entries.

He was the last resort, not the first choice for

trainers when it came time to select jockeys for their horses.
“Bud Matteo’s named you on his horse in the sixth.”
“Yeah, right, Kid,” Charlie snorted.

“Takes a better

distraction than that if you wanna beat me at pool.”
“No fooling, man.

Look.”

Jacinto produced the race entry sheet from his back pocket
and handed it to Charlie.
Crap, it was true.

He slipped on his reading glasses.

That was his name all right, listed next to

some creature called Silk Castle.
Huh?

He knew Bud, of course, everyone on the New Jersey

racing circuit did.
the day.
gives?

He’d trained several decent horses back in

Heck, Charlie had even ridden some of ‘em.

So what

Surely Bud knew that he was just the House Rider now,

the guy who stuck around to ride the last race longshot on a
rainy Saturday night.
Enjoying his confusion, Jacinto clapped him on the back and
said, “Sure hope your Medicare’s paid up.”
“What are you talking about?” Charlie asked.
“That horse, Silk Castle, he’s loco, man.

All us jocks

went down to the Stewards office, said no way Jose would we ride
‘em.

Guess that’s why Bud put you on.”

3

HOUSE JOCKEY
It was starting to make sense now.

And though Charlie knew

he’d later regret it, he had to ask, “What’s wrong with him?”
Jacinto took his time chalking up his cue stick and even
longer to answer.

He leaned over, took his shot, missed.

Jacinto straightened up and gave him a twisted smile.

“You

remember Tom Carter?”
“Of course.

What a tragedy.”

“That’s the horse that did it.”
Charlie blinked.
couldn’t be, could it?
did.

Maybe he needed a hearing aid.

It

He knew the story, of course, everyone

Tom Carter had been the leading rider at Monmouth Park

when one of his mounts had flipped upside down in the gate,
crushing and killing him.

Everyone assumed that the horse had

been seriously injured and euthanized.
It wasn’t.

It was Silk Castle.

And he was riding it.

* * *
The following night, no less than three jockeys clapped him
on the shoulder and whispered condolences while he dressed for
the sixth race.
less.

In freaking neon pink and lime green silks, no

Could it get any worse?
Charlie felt a little better when he made his way out to

the paddock and got his first, head-on view of his mount.
sucked in his breath.

He

The horse was postcard beautiful – copper

4

HOUSE JOCKEY
chestnut coat, shapely head sporting a full blaze and white
stockings on all four legs.
Maybe Jacinto and the other jockeys were just screwing
around with him…
And then his mount pranced past and Charlie saw the hard
evidence - scars traversing his flanks and hind legs from the
starting gate accident.

Crap, it was true.

Forget Medicare; was his life insurance up to date?
He felt someone shaking his hand and snapped back to
reality.

Bud Matteo enthusiastically pumped his arm up and down

and spouted instructions, none of which Charlie heard.

He

couldn’t tear his eyes away from his horse’s hindquarter horror
show, envisioned himself squashed beneath one thousand pounds of
Thoroughbred and a gravestone reading, “Charlie Beckler, 19361998.”
Bud’s next words certainly didn’t help:

“We’ve nicknamed

him Vietnam, ‘cuz he looks like he’s been in a war – and lost.”
Charlie’s stomach lurched; he tried to convince himself
that it was the damn taco he’d had for dinner.
“Riders up!” yelled the paddock judge.
The next thing Charlie knew, he was on top of the psychohorse, being towed to the gate by Bud’s ponygirl, Rose on her
bombproof Clydesdale-cross.

Every couple of strides, she’d

5

HOUSE JOCKEY
sneak a nip from her flask.

He considered asking her for a sip;

he sure could use a drink right about now.
As soon as they reached the starting gate, they were
immediately surrounded by a phalanx of three assistant starters,
geared to the max.
Whip.

Chained lead shank.

Twitch.

Blindfold.

Only thing missing was a cattle prod.
No wonder the horse was freaked out.

Charlie felt a stab

of empathy for what would probably be his final mount.

Ever.

One of the assistant starters reached for Vietnam’s lead
and the horse instantly froze up.
Shit.

He was gonna flip if Charlie didn’t think of

something.
“Rose,” he barked, “get this bastard as close as you can to
the gate, then cut him loose.”
To the starters, he yelled, “I don’t want none of you
laying a hand on him, just leave him to me.”
From the looks he got, everyone clearly thought ol’ Charlie
had gone senile.

Tough.

He’d show them - Vietnam was going to

walk right into the gate because, he, Charlie Beckler, friend of
animals everywhere, had treated him kindly.
Reality check - three feet from the gate, Vietnam reared.
Charlie instinctively vaulted from the saddle, landing on his
feet with Olympic gymnast grace.
flipping on top of him.

No way was that bugger

6

HOUSE JOCKEY
But Vietnam didn’t flip over.

Instead, he remained

perfectly balanced, front legs neatly tucked up, like a
Lipizzaner.

Damn horse belonged in a circus.

When Vietnam finally touched down, the three starters
jumped into action - one grabbed his bridle while the other two
locked arms behind his ass.

Together they drag-shoved the

rider-less horse into the gate and closed the doors.
And now it was Charlie’s turn.

He simply stood there,

looking up at the starting gate, as spooked as his horse had
been.
“Need some help getting up there, old man,” one of the
starters teased.
Yeah, nothing to it, Charlie thought, just have to scale up
the side of the starting gate and climb back on the horse of
doom.
“Come on, you’re holding up the race!” someone shouted.
Charlie took a deep breath and scrambled onto the gate.

He

paused, looked down at the snorting, pawing equine time bomb in
gate stall below.
And lowered himself into the saddle.
Vietnam tensed, gathered himself, ready to spring.
This was it, he was gonna die…
Then the gate flew open and Vietnam sprang forward instead
of upward.

7

HOUSE JOCKEY
Saved!

Five strides later, Charlie realized that he was

still alive, still in the saddle and in front?
Most Thoroughbreds run out of instinct.
run simply for the joy of it.
blind fear.

What the hell?

The truly great

Apparently, Vietnam ran out of

Not the best race strategy but it was working.

Anytime another horse got within a length of him, Vietnam would
panic and sprint away.
Charlie hunched down, held on, and counted down the furlong
poles – five-eighths, half-mile, three-eighths – not long now,
just had to make it around the turn and his trauma would be
over.

That is, assuming Vietnam didn’t jump the inner rail or

bolt to the outside fence, of course.
He felt Vietnam start to drift out.
“Oh no you don’t!” he screamed, cranking on the left rein
with all of his one-hundred and fifteen pounds.

Somehow, he got

the beast to make something resembling a left turn, and then
straightened him out for the stretch run.
look back or even uncoil his stick.

Charlie didn’t dare

They hit the finish line

five in front.
A few yards past the wire, it suddenly dawned on him that,
holy shit, he’d actually won on this nutjob!
And then he was airborne.
roll onto his back.

He balled up, did a tuck and

He laid there for a minute, winded and

wondering how that the son of a bitch managed to throw him.

8

HOUSE JOCKEY
He heard the ambulance pull up, turned his head and saw the
rear doors explode open and two overeager attendants spring out
with a stretcher.

Though Charlie refused the whole neck brace,

backboard strap-in ordeal, he did take them up on their offer
for a ride back to the grandstand.

His injuries weren’t

anything that peroxide, aspirin, and shot of whiskey couldn’t
cure.
Bud met him in front of the winner’s circle.
“Yup.

“You OK?”

Sucker wheeled on me just after the finish.”

At that moment, the rider-less Vietnam charged by, stirrups
flapping, with both outriders in hot pursuit.
Bud watched the chase for a moment, then clapped Charlie on
the back and said, “Guess we don’t get no win photo.”


