Tonight the summer is on the edge of fall. Jeffery, attending the University
around the corner, is strangled in the space between his sweating thighs and the
fabric of his underwear. The air conditioning and room fan run constantly, but the
outside still presses against his chest. He can feel an induced itch behind his legs
and on the left side of his scalp. As he scratches (admittedly, he has no nails, so he
moves bald finger tips across his body, applying more pressure to produce relief)
the gnawing pull runs up his neck, down his shins, and to the base of
undiscovered hair follicles. This sort of itch can’t be scratched, it’s permanent and
always on the run.

Jeffery opens the window in his room hoping to bring finality to the heat. The air
is full of smells from carrying a single-street of restaurants, trees plotted
intentionally throughout the city, asphalt pounded by thousands of cars daily, soap
from the hospital’s power washer, and rainwater gathered in the troughs of
shallow inclines. The room is cool by virtue of new air, but only temporarily.
Minutes from sleep he wrestles his sheet, pillows, and blanket, masterfully trying
to expose just enough body to capture the air yet still feel the comfort of being
beneath something. The room dims and eventually disappears.

He hears carousels swinging, something audibly pastel. The music is dreamscape. As the volume grows he expects images to replace vacantness, the
nostalgic music becomes buzzing light and animates Jeffery’s body. Borderless
images never arrive, it’s a dream of only sound.

Bodies and iPhones share a psychic relationship. Less than one minute before
Jeffery’s alarm rings, something tugs him from sleep, it’s too early to rise

naturally and the sun is dull this morning. Preparing for the day and trying to
compensate for a night of unusually loud dreaming, he pulls a single cigarette
from his container of Dunhills. The thrust of tobacco demands a cough from the
bottom of his stomach, collecting things as it rises. He doesn’t enjoy smoking but
he lights the cigarette after each puff to smell the breath of tobacco, to hear the
soft crumpling noise of receding plant, and to command an artificially solar
orange.

During the night Jeffery becomes scared in an adult way. His heart beats loudly
enough, you can hear it inflating his throat, to render sleep impossible and he feels
the stay of sweat; not physical endurance forehead-sweat, but Mom and Dad have
been gone for a long time chest-sweat. The vaudeville swing has round edges, it
replaces everything of subtlety.

Every night the song crescendos.

He hasn’t slept in 36 hours. Jeffery’s eyes are wrapped in sharp red vines, blood
vessels run from his pupils to the edge of his eyeballs. They might stop or keep
going.

If you measure from one end to the other, reality keeps the same shape, inch for
inch, but something is momentarily smaller, the difference is floating. Every point
of physical convergence on his body feels the centering of acute pain. Not a
physical pain, an awareness, a feeling of humanness, an organic mass essentially
degradable, the analytically stomach feeling of a garage door left open. It will
pass, his friends pull all nighters too, they feel urgency under the pressure of a
library’s hollow spaces, they do it in groups, they’ve optimized leisure.

He hasn’t slept in 78 hours. When his head drops, abandoning the neck for sleep,
he hears indiscernible laughs behind the piano, giggles are pulsations, he feels
them move. The noise possesses a shaking quality and modulates pitch to ensure
the mind doesn’t grow accustomed. His world, the world of scurrying heads, is no
longer full and flowing, everything is being pulled apart, moments essentially
taffy. Often long pauses of non-time occupy gaps in Jeffery’s memory. People on
campus are fixed, turning in sync, creatures of accountability following him. He
can hear them whispering.

He’d do anything for at least 15 minutes. He’s tempting the music, this is the
hardest part. An organism refined over tens-of-thousands-of-years recedes into
primordial stuff. A body can’t stay on for this long. The first time is fire,
everything repels. Then, he tries a pillow folded behind his neck, grabbing the
ears. It’s just as loud, it’s taunting him.

148 hours. The purple beneath his eyes is spreading, his chin is shaped by a
coagulated stripe. He can’t help but shuffle on an angle, nothing is arrow straight
anymore. His things aren’t falling, he’s just not sure when they’ll sway, and has to
be prepared for his world to lose integrity. Usually he can infer the time of day
based on how many students are moving. He hasn’t been staying in a single place,
sitting or laying, for more than one hour.

It’s impossible to say how long it’s been — how many and since what? It’s hot
again. Jeffery falls in a group of students standing for the bus, he’s smiling during
his exhaustive collapse, he can finally sleep. His body forgets to employ defense
against the release so his head crunches against the ground. Blood spills from
flattened bone, the liquid is soothing against his hair.

Sound bends against his wound, it’s excruciating. The nearby Children’s Hospital
recommends rest to get through “such a powerful concussion.”

Jeffery searches for the brightest and most pounded-by-the-sun patch of grass,
shade is too relaxing. He forgets the exact proportions of a body, but he knows
they aren’t so consuming — he sees masses of tissue and thin beige wrap,
breathing, up and down, stretching to capacity, drawing in the air he needs to stay
moving, to keep away from his mind. They are doing it. An appendage of the
monster balloons towards him and Jeffery responds as if his whole self depends
on it. Using his arm, he clubs the student’s nose, bone pierces the brain. Jeffery
hears fracturing and sees clearly for a single moment, he feels responsible for
something deeply regrettable. A human, someone young, gasps for air on grass
greener than he’d remembered it.

Home. The cartilage of the ear is pliable and can fold in on itself. He crumples the
long parts together and stuffs them deep in the canal. Using a single strand of
duct-tape he fastens his ears firmly to his head, creating a seal. Giving in, his body
lets go, a final attempt at breathing after being strangled. Loud and bopping
erratically, it nudges. Something basically human possesses Jeffery, he sleeps for
20 minutes. He senses having dashed from music. It was playing.

26 days, he doesn’t feel tired anymore. Feelings don’t persist in a world of one
flat line, he doesn’t do things for feelings anymore, he’s the thought experiment
from his philosophy class, a sponge floating in a warm pool. Constantly and
orgasmically still.

His reality is tearing apart, great and colorful holes, oscillating in apocalyptic
grandeur, stand at the center of his sight. The project of human-society is an

attempt to escape the randomness of Jeffery’s new world. Being subject to the
internal logic of a system beyond comprehension, numbers extending forever, a
beginning, an undefined end, a cavernous in-between. Human excellence is the
tried attempt to understand how inevitable it all is, to recognize the rules designate
themselves. Jeffery isn’t limping anymore, his legs thrash against his bed-posts.
The bruises seep.

Everything is storing excess, his body feels doubled, his mind is dripping
fluorescent green, his apartment’s hard wood floor is crawling up his leg, the
spinning ivy of circumstance. He is damp, sweating in proximity to a plan, an
escape route.

Tape around the ears, he stayed in his place then, nothing jumped. The less than
perfect seal opened for wind and passing cars, but the sounds did not dissipate
easily, they bounced around and folded onto each other. The mind repurposed
them, they transformed, he needs something flush, a sound-proof stretch of skin.

He’s pulling drawers from their tracks, trying to find a knife sharp enough to
displace cartilage. No one’s cleaning plates and silverware anymore, the room
yields to bags of veiny trash, the fatalism of passive living is immersive.
Measuring cups, a bottle opener, old ketchup packages, and softening gum.
Someone’s plate of pale green vegetables on top of glazed ceramic is limped on
an arm of the couch, food is crusted on the knife’s blade, it seems sharp enough.

Pulling gently, his ear is fragile. He’s responding to the physicality of the thing.
He mauls it meticulously, a faith in the logic of location, the way you feel a hand
pass in front of your closed eyes. A piece hangs, it curls in pure misery. There’s an
agency to it’s dangling, it’s convulsing, life’s in its jump, his ear’s randomness

flops. Physical pain is 4,000 to 1. During the tearing process Jeffery recognizes
the full-body panic of drowning. Submerged in blood, the buzz of the refrigerator
sounds muffled and wrapped in something. He’s being replaced by “squirts” and
“squishes” and all of the wrong and lazy words we use to classify real, gratuitous
violence. You are deflating, stop the bleeding. His body responds effortlessly,
necessarily; this feels lucid, finally. Heat aching over the wound would stop his
bleeding. Flames pounding against teflon smell gaseous. Viscous air above the
pan wiggles, almost playfully. Fast, breaking air, cracking at the end, his head is
firmly planted against a flat, quasi-steel and melting surface. An oily and searing
pan, he slides around, gliding, a lob of degrading fat charring and peeling up,
forcefully. It’s over now. Literally howling, he is going to live longer than he
would have; his skin will cool, it will grow structure again, something down its
center. His face will scab a deep and glowing, pussing, golden blue.

Something has gone wrong. Using his shoulders to flutter his arms, Jeffery
inspects his body, his hand feels air leave his mouth. Reaching across his body,
his left arm is cold to the touch, it dodges. His stomach sounds hollow when he
taps on it; low vibrations are enveloping the bulge of slowly expanding, thin skin.
His left leg is missing from below the knee. Potentially hallucinating, he places a
finger on the wet patch of thigh trying to survey damage. Slowly, he injects his
pointer finger in an opening, thinly accurate pain attaches itself to him, a feeling
suited for real things.

In a hunger more intense than starvation, no consumption of anything for more
than one thousand hours, his body turned on itself. Mindlessly pulling, the toothy
knife near his right arm ripped at his leg, using himself to prolong the end. His
only purpose: fueling an obsession, the passive chewing.

It’s on him. His ears are hurling empty music — his body assumes it’s resting, the
screaming is steady, fixed, permanent now, he recognizes all of the melodies, it’s
developed a silence of its own. He can finally sleep, but everything’s the same.


