Let’s   say   you   are   a   Jewish   female   who   measures   5’10’’   like   me   and   you   decide   to  
respond   to   the   handsome   man   on   JDATE   even   though   only   the   top   half   of   his   face   is  
showing,  because  you  like  his  sense  of  humor,  as  he  writes,  I  wish  I  had  longer  arms  
to   take   this   photo   with.   Let’s   say   you   respond   even   though   he   has   a   dangling  
preposition.  Know  that  no  matter  how  beautiful  and  wise  you  are,  you  will  need  to  
wear  ballet  flats  on  every  date  since  he  says  he  will  only  date  someone  at  least  three  
inches  shorter  than  his  5’  11”  trim/fit  self.  Trust  me,  he  is  no  more  than  5’8”  tall.  You  
can  surmise  this  from  the  too-­‐short  arms,  which  guarantees  too-­‐short  legs.    
  
But  here’s  the  good  news:  Zappoes  is  having  a  sale  on  stylish  ballet  flats,  but  please  
do   not   get   the   red   shiny   patent   ones   as   you’ll   end   up   looking   like   a  Dorothy-­‐wanna-­‐
be,  when  you  should  be  trying  for  an  artsy  writer’s  slouch  to  vouch-­‐safe  Mr.  Short-­‐
Arms’   fantasy   that   he   is   as   tall   as   he   claims.   If   you   refuse   to   stoop   to   buying   flats   for  
the  first  encounter,  then  plan  to   arrive  early,  stay   firmly   planted  on  an  agreed-­‐upon  
park  bench,  cover  your  legs  with  a  lovely  cape,  and  do  not  even  suggest  a  walk,  as  
your   floor-­‐to-­‐ceiling   legs   will   surely   out-­‐stride   his,   and   this   would   thus   be   your   first  
and  last  date.  
  
And   if   he   comments   that   you   look   tall   even   sitting   down,   you   must   resist   remarking  
lightheartedly   that   you   were   once   even   taller   prior   to   the   bone   loss   that   whittles  
down   even   the   fittest   of   women   over   fifty,   as   he   would   then   know   you   lied   about  
your  age  to  him  on  that  first  secure  JMail  exchange.  And  that  would  be  a  shame,  as  
he  is  the  only  guy  on  JDate  whose  profile  says  he  regularly  ballroom  dances.    
  
  
  

  

1  

JUMPY  JEWISH  WOMAN  SEEKS...  
  

So  remember:  no  standing  or  quipping  on  this  first  encounter.  Unless,  of  course,  he  
brings  his  mother  or  his  therapist  into  the  conversation;  i.e.  he  says  he  will  only  be  
staying   for   nineteen   minutes   as   his   therapist   told   him   anything   more   than   twenty  
minutes  in  duration  for  a  first  meeting  will  surely  make  his  anxiety  attack  him.  Or:  
his   mother   picked   you   for   his   first   date   since   according   to   the   JDATE   personality  
test,   you   have   a   BLUE   temperament,   which   means   your   dominant   trait   is  
unconditional  compassion  for  the  downtrodden.    Then,  no  matter  how  blue  his  eyes,  
no   matter   how   sexy   his   salsa,   you   must   immediately   rise   up   from   the   park   bench  
and   run,   yes,   run   toward   a   muscular   tree,   extend   your   exceedingly   long   arms,   (arms  
you   daresay   your   mother   used   to   call   upon   to   reach   for   the   high   holiday   dishes  
stored   on   the   top   shelf),   wrap   those   arms   around   that   brawny   tree-­‐trunk,   and   begin  
belting  out  your  best  rendition  of  Shall  We  Dance?  Shall  We  Dance?  Shall  We  Dance?  
  
2.  The  Moisture  Factor  
  
Okay.  So  admit  it.  You  haven’t  lied  about  your  age  to  only  one  guy.  You  have  lied  to  
“Everyman”  in  the  virtual  dating  universe.  That  makes  1021  men  in  one  week  you  
have   lied   to.   You   are   a   woman   of   integrity,   schooled   on   Sayings  of  the  Fathers   and  
truth  telling.  But  the  grim  truth  is  this:  If  you  are  over  fifty,  you  must  lie   downward  
about   your   age   because   everyman,   even   men   in   their   sixties   and   seventies,  
distinguished  silver  or  dull  grey,  totally  bald  or  semi-­‐circularly  bald,  potent-­‐on-­‐his-­‐
own   or   with-­‐the-­‐help-­‐of-­‐his-­‐prescription—wants   the   moisture   factor   of   the   20-­‐49  
year-­‐old  gal.    So  if  you  are  a  woman  no  longer  of  an  age  where  moisture  is  part  of  the  
vocabulary   of   your   lower   parts,   before   you   even   go   onto   JDate,   cast   your   line   into  
Plenty  of  Fish,   or,   if   you   went   to   the   right   school,   dig   in   to   The  Right  Stuff,   you   had  
better   get   yourself   to   your   OB/GYN   who   is   perhaps   the   only   one,   other   than  
yourself,  who’s  been  visiting  your  cave  of  delight  for  some  time.    
  
Your   dear   Dr.   Shoynberg,   the   man   who   has   archeologically   explored   your   every  
Golan   hill   and   valley   for   over   thirty-­‐five   years,   considers   himself   a   success   with  
every  woman  who  spreads  her  legs  before  him  if  he  makes  the  woman  laugh  even  as  
  

2  

JUMPY  JEWISH  WOMAN  SEEKS...  
  

he  inserts  his  bristled  broom  to  scrape  the  thinning  walls  of  her  sanctuary.  In  return,  
he  will  hopefully,  in  two  weeks  time,  have  one  of  his  seven  secretaries  write  a  form  
letter   to   say   something   breezy   like,   nothing  noteworthy  down  there,   so  see  you  in  a  
year.  However,  a  phone  call,  instead  of  a  form  letter,  means:  no  laughing  matter.    
  
Today,  Dr.  Shoynberg  makes  you  chuckle  with  this  one:  
  
  

This   morning   a   new   patient   says   to   me,   ‘I   would   never   go   to   a   doctor   who  

  

cracked  jokes  while  performing  an  internal  exam.  To  me,  that  is  just  not  a  real  

  

doctor.’  I  answer,  ‘Well  I  have  good  news  and  bad;  the  bad  news  is  that  I    always  

  

crack  jokes  during  my  exams.  The  good  news  is  I  am  not  a  real  doctor.’    

  
Dr.  Shoynberg  is  the  only  man  allowed  to  swirl  his  jellied  fingers  inside  of  you  while  
at   the   same   time   telling   dumb   jokes,   and   yet   you   realize,   with   not   a   small   amount   of  
embarrassment,  that  this  dumb-­‐joke  technique  works  brilliantly  to  open  the  doors  
to   your   locked-­‐down   unit   without   so   much   as   a   creak.   You   would   never   stand   for  
this  practice  from  a  lover.  Or  maybe  you  would.  So  many  long-­‐held  beliefs  now  up  
for  grabs.    
  
To   make   the   scene   even   more   surreal,   as   you   are   lying   there,   legs   spread,   feet  
straddled  in  the  stirrups,    bottom  scooted   down  as  directed,  the  young,  surely-­‐very-­‐
moist-­‐female-­‐first-­‐year   medical   student   stands   by,   straight-­‐faced,   googling   one  
word   at   a   time   of   your   working   diagnosis:   first   acute,   then   vaginal,   and   finally,  
atrophy,  which  she  first  types  in  as  a  trophy.  
  
3.  Treatment  for  A-­‐Cute-­‐Trophy-­‐Widow  Syndrome  
  
Your  reward  for  undergoing  the  humiliating  visit  to  Dr.  Shoynberg,  in  which  he  has  
diagnosed  you,  in  his  inimitable  fashion,  with  a-­‐cute-­‐trophy-­‐widow  syndrome,  is,  that  
you  get  to  slather  very  emollient  estrogen  creams,  gels,  essences  and  oils,  in,  around,  
over  and  through,  which  not  only  make  you  feel  appreciably  younger,  but  which,  in  
  

3  

JUMPY  JEWISH  WOMAN  SEEKS...  
  

fact,  inspire  you  to  spend  several  weeks  getting  reacquainted  with  the  concept,  not  
to   mention   the   kinesthetic   memory,   of   moisture,   which   makes   you   want   to   touch  
yourself  more  and  more,  which  you  do  with  gusto,  which  reminds  you  of  how  good  
it   felt   to   be   touched   by   your   beloved,   which   makes   you   have   to   figure   out   how   to  
keep   the   pleasurable   memory   of   his   hand,   his   mouth,   his   member   between   your  
legs,   without   focusing   on   the   absence   of   his   heat,   an   absence   that   makes   you   stop   to  
contemplate  exactly  what  happens  to  us  when  we  die,  i.e.  can  we  still  see  and  hear  
the  earthly  ones  we  left  behind  and  do  we  judge  them?  Put  another  way:  does  your  
dead   beloved   feel   helpless   when   he   hears   you   longing   for   him?   Does   he   long   to   hold  
you  as  you  long  to  hold  him?  Does  he  approve  of  how  you  are  using  your  precious  
time  on  earth?    
  
Now  that  you  have  slathered  your  inner  sanctum  with  salves  that  have  successfully  
re-­‐booted   your   moisture   factor,   and   you   have   lied   about   your   age   so   you   are   five  
years  younger,  and  you  have  claimed  yourself  to  be  an  occasional  drinker,  (there  is  
no  category  for  Manischewitz  on  Passover  only),  all  for  the  purpose  of  finding  a   nice  
Jewish   boy,   what   about   the   fact   that   the   word   widow   still   insists   itself   onto   your  
profile   page,   and   though   you   are   not   ashamed   of   that   title,   every   time   you   review  
your   page   and   see   the   word,   widow,   you   think   of   how   your   hip   bone   fit   so   fine  
alongside  his,  or  you  think  of  how  your  hip  accidently  bumped  into  his  stiff  elbow  
that   stuck   out   through   the   metal   side   bars   of   the   rented   hospital   bed   hours   after   his  
breath  left  his  body,  how  his  elbow  felt  like  paper  Mache.    
  
On   the   other   hand,   you   are   stunned   when   someone   messages   you   as   if   the   word  
widow  was   not   there   at   all,   like   the   latest   IM   from   a   guy   with   stunning   green   eyes  
and   a   full   head   of   dark-­‐dark   hair,   that   reads,   hello   there   miss,   with   not   a   dot   of  
punctuation.  You  haven’t  been  a  Miss  since  Gloria  Steinem  made  a  hit  at  your  college  
campus.   Yet   here   you   are,   ashamed   that   you   feel   even   a   moment   of   pleasure,   as   if  
you   were   an   innocent   again.   You   move   the   message   into   the   folder   marked   trash,  
though  you  are  not  ready  to  press  the  button  on   Mr.  Green  Eyes,  and  all  the  other  

  

4  

JUMPY  JEWISH  WOMAN  SEEKS...  
  

338  un-­‐matching  matches—the  button  marked  delete  forever.    You  just  couldn’t  bear  
one  more  loss,  even  if  it  is  only  a  virtual  one.    
  
4.  Dogs,  Birds,  Fish  Or  Men  
  
You   get   to   thinking   maybe   it   would   be   easier   to   go   the   route   of   the   rescue   shelter   to  
find   a   feline   friend.   You   have   recently   discovered   that   hairless   cats,   though   ugly,    
make  the  best  heating  pads,  as  if  their  lithe  bodies  are  eternally  turned  up  to  high.  
Or   even   a   dog   might   do,   though   you   have   never   owned   any   pet   at   all,   as   your   Jewish  
eastern   European   upbringing   taught   you:   Jews   just   don’t   do   pets.   No   consumer  
animals,  period.  You  are  sure  it  would  be  comforting,  if  not  downright  therapeutic,  
as   research   has   proven,   to   spend   your   free   time   petting   a   feline   or   canine,   having  
him  heat  up  your  lap,  provided  he  is  house-­‐trained,  rather  than  using  your  time  to  
seek   out   a   man   who   may   or   may   not   be.   Plus,   you   could   just   leave   the   furry   thing   at  
home  when  you  go  alone  to  the  movies,  instead  of  having  to  negotiate,  compromise  
on  the  kind  of  movie  (thriller  vs.  chic  flick)  and  how  close  or  far  from  the  screen  you  
will  sit,  or  whether  you  want  to  sit  together  at  all.    This  could  occur  if  the  guy  is  as  
claustrophobic  as  you,  and  thus  would  also  require  an  aisle  seat.    
  
And   maybe   a   dog   or   cat   is   the   best   option   because   you   are   still   mini-­‐traumatized   by  
the  night  you  drove  almost  an  hour  to  the  nice  Jewish  guy’s  house  because  you  had  
gotten  to  know  him  well  enough  to  trust  that  this  would  be  safe.  His  kids  were  away  
for  the  weekend,  not  a  great  sign,  in  your  judgment,  that  they  all  still  live  at  home  
even  though  they  are  in  their  twenties,  but  you  tend  to  be  judgmental  about  these  
things   and   have   sworn   to   overcome   such   judgments.   So,   there   you   were,   having  
driven  a  good  sixty  minutes  because  you  wanted  to  show  fairness,  as  he  had  made  
the  drive  to  your  neck  of  the  woods  more  than  once,  and  because  he  had  offered  to  
cook  a  special  dinner.  He  had  even  asked  you  beforehand  if  you  liked  wine  sauces,  
and   you   felt   free   to   say   that   you   couldn’t   have   wine   sauces,  doctor’s  orders,   and   then  
he  had  even  proceeded  to  ask  about  sautéed-­‐in-­‐butter  spinach  as  the  recipe  called  
for  it,  and  you  had  said  you’d  rather  not,  as  you  simply  hate  spinach,  and  you  asked  
  

5  

JUMPY  JEWISH  WOMAN  SEEKS...  
  

sweetly  for  the  fish  to  be  served  just  plain,  with  maybe  a  few  green  beans,  if  he  had  
any  around.    
  
But   when   you   got   to   his   house   you   detected   no   scent   of   anything   at   all   wafting   from  
the  kitchen  and  you  saw  only  a  three-­‐bite-­‐sized  square,  not  a  triangle,  of  Brie,  and  
some   unsalted   Carr   crackers   on   the   otherwise   empty   dining   table.   Also,   since   the  
house   felt   airless   and   you   are   claustrophobic,   you   tried   to   unobtrusively   open   a  
window,  but  he  insisted  on  opening  it  himself.  You  accepted  the  offer,  but  realized  
he  had  not  noted  that  the  storm  window  behind  the  sash  window  was  still  closed.  
You   said   this.   He   disagreed.   Really.   He   did.   Said   the   storm   window   couldn’t   possibly  
be  down  because  it  is  July.  You  realized  you  might  just  pass  out  right  there  on  the  
dining  room  floor.    Maybe  then  he  would  turn  on  the  central  air  he  proudly  said  he’d  
been  saving  for  a  hotter  day.    
  
After  the  storm  and  stress  over  the  window,  (he  did  eventually  open  the  storm),  you  
were  given  a  grand  tour  of  the  place;  you  entered  each  grown  child’s  bedroom  with  
their  faded  rumpled  pink  or  blue  blankets,  and  finally,  the  bedroom  he  had  shared  
with  his  wife  who  left  him  with  the  beds  and  the  kids  and  the  dirty  towels  and  the  
swimming  lessens  to  pay  for.  And  you  realized  maybe  he  was  hoping  you’d  say  what  
the   movie   starlet   of   the   1950’s   would   say,   Oh   yes,   dessert   before   dinner,   or   maybe  
dessert  instead  of  dinner.    
  
But  you  were  really  hungry,  for  real  food,  having  not  eaten  since  breakfast,  so  as  to  
stay   svelte   as   a   sixteen-­‐year-­‐old,   instead   of   the   sixty-­‐year-­‐old   you   have   somehow  
become.  So  even  though  dozens  of  ant-­‐killer  tins  lined  the  kitchen  counters,  (in  fact  
he   had   bought   you   a   package   for   your   house   as   well,   hearing   that   you   shared   this  
problem),  when  he  offered  to  defrost  the  two  burger  patties,  though  they  were  not  
organic,  and  though  they  were  so  very  skinny,  you  assented.    
  
To   be   fair,   the   guy   was   willing   to   engage   in   a   processing   conversation   by   phone   a  
week   later,   in   which   you   asked   what   the   deal   had   been   that   night,   why   he   had   failed  
  

6  

JUMPY  JEWISH  WOMAN  SEEKS...  
  

to  prepare  dinner  before  you  arrived.  You  don’t  even  mention  how  weird  it  was  that  
he  had  offered  to  open  the  family-­‐sized  package  of  raw  chicken,  even  though  he  told  
you   he   had   bought   those   items   for   the   next   night’s   July   4th   dinner   he   would   be  
hosting   with   his   kids   for   his   ex-­‐wife   and   his   mother.   After   a   long   silence   he  
answered  that  he  supposed  he  had  wanted  you  to  want  the  special  dinner  with  the  
expensive   wine-­‐sauce   and   braised   spinach,   just   as   the   recipe   had   called   for,   and  
since  you  didn’t  want  that,  he  felt  maybe   disappointed  or  more  accurately,  mad,  and  
this   was   his   way   of   acting   when   he   was   mad   or   disappointed   and   couldn’t   say   so.  
And   though   this   was   laudable,   his   willingness   to   consider   his   own   feelings   and  
actions,  you  decided  it  is  preferable  (you  can’t  believe  you  are  thinking  this)  if  a  man  
doesn’t   reveal   his   feelings,   at   least   if   they   are   in   any   way   negative   ones.   That   way  
you   are   free   to   imagine,   to   project   onto   him   feelings   and   thoughts   that   you   would  
prefer   him   to   have.   You   once   bought   yourself   a   greeting   card   with   cover   that   shows  
a  young  woman  sitting  across  from  an  old  gypsy  who  is  looking  into  a  crystal  ball.  
The  gypsy  says,  at  8:30  a.m.  on  Tuesday  morning  all  the  women  in  the  world  will  ask  
all  the  men  in  the  world  what  they  are  feeling.  When   you   open   the   card   and   the   gypsy  
continues:  And  at  8:35  a.m.  on  that  same  Tuesday  morning,  all  the  women  in  the  world  
will  be  sorry  they  asked.    
  
And  on  that  same  storm-­‐window,  ant-­‐killer  night,  you  had  decided  that  despite  the  
dinner   debacle,   since   you   had   traveled   such   a   long   way   and   didn’t   want   to   drive  
back  home  without  some  pleasure  under  your  belt,  that  you  would  finish  the  night  
off   with   a   movie   called   The  Beginners,   ostensibly   about   an   older   gay   guy   who   comes  
out  to  his  son.    So  you  go,  the  two  of  you,  in  separate  cars,  since  the  movie  is  on  your  
way  back  home,  and  you  pay  your  own  way,  so  as  not  to  have  him  mistake  it  for  a  
date,  in  other  words,  so  as  not  to  be  expected  to  pay  in  other  ways.  Even  at  sixty,  you  
can  still  taste  the  tasteless  expressions  that  boys  used  in  high  school  about  girls  who  
didn’t  or  did  put  out.  Either  way,  the  girl  was  metaphorically  screwed.  
  
So   there   you   are,   sitting   in   the   middle   of   a   row   that   is   located   very   close   to   the  
screen.  First,  you  can't  believe  you  are  not  having  a  panic  attack  from  this.  Second,  
  

7  

JUMPY  JEWISH  WOMAN  SEEKS...  
  

this  makes  you  think  of  how  your  dead  beloved  had  trained  you  to  sit  very  far  back  
from   the   screen   (you   never   asked   why),   on   a   row   with   an   aisle   seat   available   for  
him,   and   preferably   an   empty   seat   in   front   of   each   of   you,   so   that   both   of   you   would  
have  an  unobstructed  view.  And  to  guarantee  this,  you  would  put  your  coats  on  the  
seats  in  front  of  you  to  keep  them  forever  vacant.  But  this  is  not  your  dead  beloved  
sitting   next   to   you,   just   as   this   not   a   movie   about   a   gay   guy   coming   out.   It   is   a   movie  
about   a   sixty-­‐something-­‐year   old   man,   who   happens   to   look   very   much   like   your  
dead   beloved,   who   happens   to   also   have   found   true   love,   and   who   happens   to   be  
dying.    You  see  the  very  tall  (like  your  dead  beloved),  grey-­‐haired,  (you  guessed  it),  
protagonist   look   on,   as   his   rented   hospital   bed   gets   wheeled   into   his   living   room,  
and   in   your   mind   you   hear   the   ready   wry   comment   that   your   darling   had   made  
when  he  returned  from  the  hospital  and  saw  the  new  bed  in  your  living  room  and  
two  lazy-­‐boys  in  the  bedroom  for  future  nurses:  Wow.  Amazing.  You’ve  succeeded  in  
making  the  house  look  like  a  furniture  store.    
  
Then   you   watch   the   protagonist   don   his   oxygen   mask   and   you   become   not   only  
breathless,   but   incredibly   jumpy;   so   you   say   to   your   male   friend,   I   gotta   get   outa  
here,  and  you  scuttle  across  six  sets  of  knees  to  get  out  of  the  row,  out  of  the  theater  
and  you  start  sobbing.  Your  friend  runs  after  you,  even  though,  since  you  have  come  
in  separate  cars,  he  could  have  stayed,  but  not  really.    
  
He   follows   you   out   through   the   heavy   glass   doors   into   the   night   air   and   down   the  
street  and  asks  if  you  wanted  to  sit  on  a  bench,  and  you  say  okay,  and  he  asks  if  he  
can  kiss  you,  and  you  no,  not  at  all.  You  can't  believe  that  he  can't  see  grief  entering  
your  body  as  if  through  a  full-­‐time-­‐feeding-­‐tube.  And  you  understand  you  have  to  go  
home   right   away   to   rework   your   JDATE   profile:   Beginner   widow   seeks  
companionable   male,   definitely   unready   for   intimacy,   assuredly   undaunted   by   the  
question:      ‘how   you   are   using   your   precious   time   on   earth?’   Must   love   to   ballroom  
dance,  for  now,  via  Skype.    
  
  
  

8  


