Jerry was checking the items off his list in preparation for his stay at the beach.
Sunblock. Floppy hat. Three bathing suits. One of those shpritzy fans. Cold packs. Trader Joe
thermal bags. Boogie board. Grooming. He was up to grooming. Beard, neatly trimmed. Ear
hair, nose hair, all gone. Facial just beginning to settle down, should be fine by the time he got
to Magnolia Beach and the little condo he rented. Fingernails buffed and clipped. Toe nails.
Uh-oh.
His right pinky toe had some black markings. Jerry didn’t think toenail fungus behaved
like that. Did Adele leave him a note with a fine-point Sharpie on his toe? He could probably
squeeze in a doctor’s appointment before the exodus. Curiosity got to him, and he drew on all of
his yoga skills plus a bike mirror to try to see the marks. They were letters. Tiny little letters.
He got up to get his phone (fully charged, check) and tried the lighted magnifier. There they
were. An F, an X, and a B. The letters rang a bell. Bell, that was it. Adele was just absolutely
wild about money. As a goof, he proposed a mid-day date to the observation deck at the Wall
Street Stock Exchange, followed by lunch at Fraunces Tavern. What a place. It got blown up, it
was burned down, but it was still here, the bar where George Washington ran the country. It was
definitely not a goof to Adele; lunch had to be rescheduled.
That day, the Exchange had one of those goofy IPO ceremonies at the opening bell. The
Fluid Exchange Bank. FXB. They would fund projects to replace heating oil with gas heat, for
example, or with electric heat, or run perfectly good coal power-plant turbines with hydrogen
instead of coal. Then they would collect the savings from lung disease mitigation and carbon
credits. But how did it end up on his toe?

THE TOE LINE – PAGE 1

Jerry didn’t care how. He put down his checklist and picked up the phone to call his
broker.
“Saul. Jerry. Can you put me down for 5,000 shares of FXB at up to $11? No, I didn’t
know it was down from the IPO. No, I don’t care. Let’s just say I received some inside
information. No, not that kind. No, nobody is going to jail. Okay. Thanks, 5,000 capped at
$11. I will. And hi to Lenore and the kids.”
Back to the check list. The vet wasn’t far from his doctor’s office; he could do both in
one trip. He’d need a life jacket for Shmendrick if he was going to join in on the water sports.
Last item. Put the bike rack on the car. Everything was packed and ready for them to leave in
three days. Time to walk the pooch.
Shmendrick, a white with black highlights Rat Terrier, three years old, brought Jerry his
leash. The dog was the spitting image of Nipper, the dog from the old RCA commercials, right
down to the cocked head. Off they went, along streets paved with red brick separating rows of
terra-cotta roofed houses, trees in their sidewalk boxes, driveways with tricycles and basketball
hoops. Jerry and Shmendrick were glad to get to the dog run, where chaos was allowed to reign.
The next day was for the doctors. Jerry tossed Shmendrick in the car along with his
carrier, and they headed off to serious suburbia, traffic tied in knots from cars trying to sort
themselves out to get each car to its appointed strip mall. Jerry thought it would have been nice
to have at least one strip mall with an actual strip joint, but that was life out of the big city. Dr.
Lefkowitz pronounced Shmendrick healthy as kale, and she even gave Jerry a canine life jacket
that someone had left in the waiting room months ago. Odd thing for someone to leave. Jerry
knew it was now time to face the toenail music.

THE TOE LINE – PAGE 2

“Jer! Great to see you!” They shook hands and the doctor gave Jerry’s “support dog” a
back scratch. Dr. Dan Briah was Jerry’s classmate at the Bronx High School of Science. “Did
you really come in for toenail fungus? Not that I mind the visit. What’s the story?”
“Cheese,” said Jerry, using his friend’s High School nick name, “this is the strangest
thing. I doubt it’s fungus. Just take a look and tell me if you have to amputate."
"C’mon into the exam room. Just slip your crocs off, sit in the chair, put your feet up on
the exam table. That’ll be easiest.”
Jerry and Shmendrick went in, Shmendrick from a corner of the room glaring at the
model skeleton in the opposite corner. Cheese placed the lamp in position, put in a jeweler’s
loupe, put on gloves and grabbed a sterile curette from the box. Then he went to work.
“You’re right, it’s not a fungus. It’s all on the outside of the nail.” He got down a larger
magnifier and a tiny little pick. Then he put what was on the pick onto a microscope slide. “Jer,
this was burned in. Maybe a very hot needle. Maybe a laser. You absolutely would have felt
this.”
“Not at all. It wasn’t there Tuesday night and it was there Wednesday morning. No one
else was in the house except Shmendrick. He’s smart, but not that smart.”
“Did the letters mean anything? F, B, X. Anyone’s initials?”
Jerry told his friend about the Fluid Exchange Bank.
“No way! I was in on the IPO! I’m down from the peak, but this is the first outfit that
might actually get something done, no cap and trade, no taxes. I’m in for the long haul on this
one.”

THE TOE LINE – PAGE 3

Jerry was relieved that he wasn’t a sucker. Or the only sucker. Either way. “I went in
for 5,000 shares. Let’s hope differential equations trump politics. I’m going to Magnolia Beach
with Adele for a little vacation. You have no idea of the psychic toll involved in dealing with
people who flat out lie to your face.”
“Still in fraud detection?”
“It isn’t glamorous, but I’m good at it, and I love ‘solving the puzzle.’ And it pays. I
have that on my desk now, ‘Scelus praestitit mihi Michas’”
“‘Crime Pays Me?’ That’s very good. Benefit of a classical education. Kiss Adele for
me, have a great time. Let me know if anything changes.”
Friday morning, Jerry took Shmendrick for a last bone-dry play session in the dog run.
Red bricks, terra-cotta roofs, trees, and roses. It looked like some neighbors on Laurel
Boulevard were in a horticultural pissing match. At the end of the block, though, the House of a
Thousand Lawn Ornaments was florally bare. Jerry and soulmate number one had breakfast at
the sidewalk tables in front of Huey’s Coffee and Stuff. Athenian omelet, three-quarters for
Jerry and one for the dog, the quarter without the magic ingredient, white pepper, which Huey
served in a little bowl. Both satiated, they situated themselves in the car and went to pick up
soulmate number 2.
“Jer! SHMENDRICK!!!!” Adele yelled out with her usual effervescence. “I hope you
have room for three bags.”
“If not, we can always get Mitt Romney to tie Shmendrick to the roof. Hi sweetheart.
Mmmhhh Mmmmhhh.”

THE TOE LINE – PAGE 4

“Is there still a fungus among us? What did the doctor say?”
“Definitely not a fungus. He said it seemed to have been burned in. Neither of us has any
idea how. I’m wearing crocs on the beach instead of flip flops. All set?”
“Ready for Freddy, big boy!”
It was a great day for driving; they got an early start and were already half the distance
from Magnolia as the people starting out now from the city. As Jerry drove, Adele regaled him
with tales of what she was editing now.
“Would you believe a book about talking goats? Talking goats! For grownups! I’m just
happy I didn’t get that assignment. Bill took it. He’s a real Holy Roller, and these are supposed
to be goats from the Bible. I drew a dog book. Probably the last dog book that’ll get picked up
for the next 30 years. It’s cute. Woman gets a dog and the dog does not save her, but she
decides she doesn’t need to be saved.”
“That would be literature, right?”
“Fucking too right it would be, after I get through with it. How are things in the world of
Physics?” Adele asked, referring to her paramour’s hobby since they were on vacation.
“I just found out last week that the meaning of Physic, singular, is a laxative or a
cathartic. I never knew that. Oh, and there may be a fifth force of nature. I’ll have my reading
cut out for me.
The Magnolia exit came up, and Jerry took the turn for the David Paterson Bridge. In six
blocks, they were riding along the beach and approaching the condo. There seemed to be a lot of
surfers riding some very tall waves, unusual for Magnolia. There was the obligatory surf-kiter

THE TOE LINE – PAGE 5

trying to take off, the beach volley ball games already in progress, and then ‘that’ section of
beach where people didn’t take their kids. Past that a few more blocks, and Google advised them
that they reached their destination. Jerry had come over during one of his doctor trips and raised
the green and yellow ecology flag. Brave Shmendrick would serve as the garrison of the keep.
If you counted drywall and vinyl siding as ‘walls’ then the beach place was a bona fide, glatt
kosher castle.
“Everyone knows it’s windy!” Adele trilled.
“Welcome to my rented castle. Enter, of your own free will!”
When Adele and Jerry finished unpacking and Shmendrick had a nice walk, they put on
the Weather Channel. Hurricane Cyrus was well off the coast; it would be windy and choppy for
a while but it would not be making landfall anywhere near them. As was their wont, they
ordered in for their first night away. Corned beef, pastrami, and tongue sandwiches from
Atlantic Kosher Deli. New pickles, coleslaw, round knishes, Dr. Brown’s Cel-Ray Tonic. Life
couldn’t be better.
Morning brought the news of the devastation. The storm, which had started as a tropical
depression off the coast of Africa, wound up heading north and back east. Sherbrooke, Nova
Scotia would never be the same. St. Pierre and Miqelon, French territory, were wiped out; .
Reykjavik took a major hit, and the storm was now predicted to hit Scotland. CNN and MSNBC
had climatologists lined up to be interviewed. This was the first devastating storm to absolutely,
positively, be caused by anthropogenic climate change. Global warming. Fox had a weather
map for a few minutes each cycle but was otherwise covering the merits of the latest White
House scandal. By Monday, Magnolia Beach was as calm as a Zen monk. And everyone with a

THE TOE LINE – PAGE 6

dollar, Euro, lira, shekel, or pound to invest was looking for companies with good chances to
arrest global warming. Starting with the Fluid Exchange Bank. By Monday, Jerry had doubled
his investment.
“Sweetie, I would have given it all up if it could have spared a single life lost to the
storm.”
“Jer, I know that. And you know how money affects me. It’s silly, I know, but some
people have shoes, some people have whips and chains, I have money. But you know that
money isn’t yours to keep, right?”
“I know that, honeybunch. I was thinking about a free bike program in some low-income
EPA danger zone county. $50K should cover it. Maybe it’ll get replicated.”
“Good boy. Now let’s go inside and check out the viscosity of that sunscreen lotion…”
Jerry and Adele set out to have wonderful beach week; Cyrus apparently sucked up all of
the moisture around the northeast Atlantic, and the weather was clear and the surfing fabulous—
even the boogie boarding! On Monday, Adele had an editing emergency. And Jerry’s right
“ring toe” had a new message. Since they weren’t going to the beach, Jerry drove back to
Cheese’s office to have it looked at.
“Let’s get you up on the table, Jer.” Cheese brought in the dermatology lamps from
Maria’s side of the practice and borrowed Max’s hi-magnification glasses.
“Ya know, Cheese, this time Adele was in the house. But don’t you think I would have
felt if someone burned a message into my toe? Shmendrick didn’t make a sound, either.”
“Roman numerals. One, five, six, ten, eighteen. Mean anything?”

THE TOE LINE – PAGE 7

Jerry hoped the microsecond of recognition that must have flashed on his face wasn’t
picked up by his friend, the trained observer.
“Could mean anything,” Jerry prevaricated. He had continued Hebrew School even after
his Bar Mitzvah; Dan, even at 14 getting ready for medical school, did not. “But it must mean
something, considering the circumstances.”
On Wednesday Cheese appeared at the condo shortly after 9:00 AM. He handed Adele a
check for $28,694 and a tax form for Jerry to fill out.
“Come in, Dan, come in!” Adele couldn’t bring herself to call anyone ‘Cheese.’” Can I
get you anything? Pheasant under glass? Champagne? A quickie? A longie? It’s not every day
someone knocks on our door with almost thirty thousand dollars. Let me go check and see if His
Nibs is now properly disposed. JERRRYYYYY!!!!”
The smile that Adele's gave him almost bleached out the blush from the ‘quickie’ remark.
“Jer,” Dan said as his patient entered the living room. I played the Take Five with the
numbers on your toe and they came in. I gave Adele a check for you for half the pot, less one
dollar for the ticket. Those toes are some smart cookies. Wait a minute. This little piggy went
to MARKET. You went to market for FXB. This little piggy stayed home. You didn’t go in on
anything with the second toe.”
“We’re all rational, well-educated people here. Dan, you are the scientific one. I’m the
mathematical one. Adele, you are in charge of telling the story of ourselves to ourselves. We
should be able to figure this out.”

THE TOE LINE – PAGE 8

“I wouldn’t even know where to begin making a hypothesis on this, Jer. I got nothing.”
So much for medical science.
“Don’t look at me, kiddo. I’ve got my own problems with my toenails.”
Jerry decided to hoard the tiny little piece of the puzzle he thought he identified. Jerry
and Adele gave a warm goodbye to Cheese, who had to get back to his practice. Rain was in the
forecast, so they enjoyed a matinee and then ventured out to see a movie and have a sushi dinner.
It was their mutual favorite. They would sit together on stools at the bar and have the chef bring
them what he thought they would like. That was the way to have sushi.
The next morning, Thursday, Adele rose early. She had put her flashlight keychain on
the night table before going to bed, and now she took it and shined the little LED on her lover’s
foot. Something new was there on his right middle toe. Capital P, little d. She recalled editing a
heist book, a gang ripping off precious metals facilities, and she instantly recognized Pd as
palladium. Funny, she must have seen Frank Zappa at the Palladium on 14th street in Manhattan
at least six times, he was there every Mothers’ Day. She never made the connection to the
element. “Jerry! Jerry! Wake up, you big lummox. Call your broker!”
“What? Which? Who? What time is it? Are you okay? Was the Uni bad again?”
“No, you moron, it’s your toe. Buy palladium futures! I’m checking the prices on my
phone. It’s $947 now. The price of an option to buy it next month at $990 is TEN CENTS. Call
that goddamn broker!”
Adele was never wrong about anything, at least not in Jerry’s experience. Although he
was queasy about using his mysterious toes for personal gain, he estimated how many dogs and

THE TOE LINE – PAGE 9

cats could be rescued if he optioned a thousand ounces and the price moved to just $1,020.
Fifteen thousand pets in new homes. He called Saul.
Naturally, ten cents wasn't ten cents when you actually tried to buy something for ten
cents. That was just a holding price because no one thought the least publicly known precious
metal would be making a move any time soon. Jerry's old friend Saul, for educational purposes,
put him on conference when he placed the order. The broker put in five lots of a hundred ounces
each at the posted bid of a dime per ounce to buy next month at $990. But once the other end of
the phone detected an intact hymen on the customer, the ask came back as $1.03. That was fine
with Jerry; Saul's minimum move was $500. He was in for $515. He stood to make fifteen
grand if palladium actually made it to $1,020. Adele, now wound up from all the money talk,
hung up the phone.
"I guess it's roast beef for dinner tonight, my sweet toozik." Adele rarely let her
Armenian side slip out. "You know. This little piggy had roast beef."
Friday was beach all the way. They started out in the fenced-off dog friendly section and
had a great three-way frisbee game with Shmendrick. They lay out for a while manufacturing
vitamin D, and then inflated the kayak.
"Sweetie pie, feel like a non-monetary thrill for a change?"
"Whadjah have in mind, lover boy?"
"Stay right there and I'll show you. But don't be like George Washington. Don't stand up
in the boat. Shmendrick and I would hate to lose you."

THE TOE LINE – PAGE 10

Jerry paddled west along the shore to the next section, the traditional clothing-optional
stretch. The dog's "pup" tent had been secreted in a cargo space in the kayak. They set it up and
put Shmendrick inside with some water, a couple of toys, and a bowl of top-shelf chow. The
lovebirds spent an interesting hour enjoying the freedom, silently making comparisons, and
being surprised at the current state of piercing ingenuity. The walk gave them some ideas, but
they decided it wasn't a hobby for them.
They had a pizza delivered and ate it in front of the evening news on TV. By the time
Jerry had his second slice of anchovies, spinach and mushrooms and Adele got to the crust of her
pepperoni, the television threw them into shock. A brand new African Native Property Rights
group had inflected major structural damage on palladium mines in both South Africa and
Zimbabwe. That was about eighty percent of world production and reserves. Fox Business
channel predicted that by the time the Merc opened in Chicago on Monday, the price per ounce
might reach $3,000. Anybody could pass with a 10-karat gold wedding ring, but catalytic
converters need pure palladium to start out. All the blood drained from Jerry's face. He decided
to not be embarrassed sharing his silly superstition with Adele.
"You know, honeybunch, I have a hunch." Jerry tried to start out smooth. The operative
word being "tried." Adele looked questioningly at him and he started again, this time just plain
straight-up. "I believe I know the source of what's happening with my toes. I've known for a
while, but I didn't want to say anything. I hit me in Dan's office. That was the toe he won the
lottery with. One, five, six, ten, eighteen. Ten, Five, Ten, Six are the number equivalents of the
Hebrew letters in the Tetragrammaton. You know. I am What I am, Jehovah. The big
enchilada. The Man Upstairs. Eighteen is the number for Chai, life. One is the monotheism
thing. It adds up."

THE TOE LINE – PAGE 11

Adele had never known Jerry to be anything but fact-based and precise in communicating
an idea. She gave him the benefit of the doubt. After all, neither she, Dan, or Jerry had even the
beginning of a way to find out what was happening. Why not start out with what was coming
straight from the horse's mouth.
"So what are we going to do with that information, prophet? A little jab could break a lot
of tension, Adele figured. Couldn't hurt.
"I don't know yet. I know it's probably not enough to just give away money. I think I
should be saying stuff. I don't know what stuff or who I should say it to. But one thing I do
know is that we're going to have a fun time on the beach tomorrow. Maybe something will come
to me."
Saturday was a ten on the beach day scale. Light haze keeping people from turning into
Eggs Florio. Air temperature 78, water temperature 68. They brought Adele's folding cabana
and Jerry's beach chairs and umbrella, a cooler, books, snacks, and, of course Shmendrick with
his frisbee and tent. There were plenty of other dogs to play with in their section, and he knew
enough to stay in visual range of Daddy and Aunt Adele. Adele didn't even seem to mind that he
decided to wear the speed-o. Three hours into their ecstacy, Jerry decided what to do.
He waited until the life guards got down to corral the kids back between the flags, and he
climbed up the life guard tower chair. He grabbed a bull horn hanging from an arm of the chair
and started.
"All your lovers have forgotten you,
They do not seek you;
For I have wounded you with the wound of an enemy,
With the punishment of a cruel one,
THE TOE LINE – PAGE 12

Because your iniquity is great
And your sins are numerous."

Nothing but funny looks.
"But," He went on, "Do justice and righteousness, and deliver the one who has been
robbed from the power of his oppressor. Also do not mistreat or do violence to the stranger, the
orphan, or the widow; and do not shed innocent blood in this place."
A Tennessee Treeing Walker that had been playing with Shmendrick started it off with an
Appalachian howl. Shmendrick joined his friend, and then all the other dogs, even dogs with
absolutely no hound in them. Finally, the crowd gave him a standing ovation. The life guards
who went up to bring Jerry down steered a course between patting him on the back and making
sure he wasn't dangerous. And then he went back to his blanket.
“That was quite a speech. Did you make that up on the fly?” Adele was able to ask
without looking overly worried.
“Oh, no. It was from my namesake, Jeremiah. I thought I’d try it out. I don’t think
public speaking is really my thing.”
Sunday was another five-star beach day and went off without incident. Jerry and Adele
decided to have cocktails at the old lighthouse that was repurposed as a bar. Adele saw that Jerry
was a little twitchy. He was vacillating between being normal and doing what he thought he
should be doing. Duty finally got the better of him. He had the presence of mind to wait until
everyone was good and drunk before getting up and announcing to the company:
“All your lovers have forgotten you,
They do not seek you;

THE TOE LINE – PAGE 13

For I have wounded you with the wound of an enemy,
With the punishment of a cruel one,
Because your iniquity is great
And your sins are numerous.

A lion has gone up from his thicket,
And a destroyer of nations has set out;
He has gone out from his place
To make your land a waste.
Your cities will be ruins
Without inhabitant.

They will devour your harvest and your food;
They will devour your sons and your daughters;
They will devour your flocks and your herds;
They will devour your vines and your fig trees;
They will demolish with the sword your fortified cities in which you trust.
Another ovation, and three champagne bottles sent to their table.

“Do you think it odd, dear one, that people applaud when they’re told how bad they are?”
“Jerry, I’m in the book business. People want punishment inflicted on them, or at least
punishment described. In detail. That’s what sells books. Why do you think there are a billion
copies of the Bible floating around? Why do you think A Million Little Pieces had six print
runs? Even though we’re seated in the lamp house, we’re in my wheel house on this one. Trust
me.

THE TOE LINE – PAGE 14

“Good point. This getting up and shouting thing is just not for me. Maybe I should
write. Maybe I should just wait until what I should be doing is a little more clear. Maybe we
should drink the champagne and go back to the castle.”
Dan’s Channel had the earliest newscast and Adele made sure they were both up when it
started. Palladium was the top story; on the Asian and European exchanges it had hit $2,862 per
ounce. Adele was practically foaming at the mouth, among other places. Reuters was reporting
that the Russian FSI, their CIA, instigated the front group so that Russia’s reserves would fetch
higher prices for their 15% piece of the world market.
“Love of my life, you’re just shy of A MILLION DOLLARS. You can buy your own
publishing imprint. C’mere and kiss me, you big idiot! And use plenty of tongue!”
After the French kissing, after the news broadcast, and after the dishes were washed,
Jerry’s cell rang. It was the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The woman on the phone
sounded upset.
“Sweetheart, I’m not getting what the problem is. I made a bet and it paid off. Is there
some agency that calls people up who won a poker hand by drawing to an inside straight? No, I
haven’t had any contact with anyone from Russia since my grandparents died. No, I’m not going
to come to your office. If you want to talk to me, come out to the beach house, I’ll make sweet
tea, we can sit on the porch and shoot the breeze. If I decide to answer a question, it will be the
truth. No, I didn’t know I was the only one to buy that option. Look, sweetheart, find a real
agency that has arrest powers and come and arrest me. That’ll be a good career move for you.
Listen, this is one Russia investigation that really is a witch hunt. Thank you. And have a nice

THE TOE LINE – PAGE 15

day.” Jerry thought his interlocutor could be swayed by the prospect of sweet tea in the summer,
but she didn’t bite.
Jerry’s toes had been silent for a while and they stayed silent until the Super Bowl. His
right index toe displayed a fairly faithful reproduction of Walking Liberty, from the old pre-war
silver half dollars. Adele saw it and had her bookie in Vegas bet on ‘heads’ for the coin toss.
She won. But a few weeks later, the toe action came to a head. Two months after the Super
Bowl, Jerry’s right great toe displayed a bracket. Just in time for March Madness, the NCAA
Division 1 championships.
Someone from Portugal had purchased one of Trump’s bankrupt casinos and came up
with an irresistible promotion: The Ten Thousand Dollar Bracket. The five brackets to correctly
pick the champion team and with the closest point differences would split the pot. But if there
was a single perfect bracket, that player would win the entire pot. Half a million idiots plus Jerry
plunked down their ten grand to buy in. When Jerry won by correctly picking Carmody
University to beat the other 63 teams, five billion dollars flooded into his Foundation for Doing
Good Stuff, a 501 C 3 philanthropic organization Jerry had set up after the palladium windfall.
Adele volunteered to babysit Shmendrick while Jerry was being interiewed on TV. He
was a natural, cool and collected, and was able to slip in the Jeremiah stuff as easily as a man
with a 40-year-old hooker. The interview over, Adele went to take Shmendrick for a walk, but
she couldn’t find his night leash. At the back of a closet, though, she did find an interesting box
marked HeathKit. It had radio parts and electronic tools in it; Jerry must have been a ham at
some point before they met. And in the box, presumably from the old integrated circuit days,
was the tiniest soldering iron she had ever seen. And this little piggy went wee, wee, wee, wee,
all the way home.
THE TOE LINE – PAGE 16


