When  he  heard  the  phone  ring,  it  was  already  too  late.  The  ground  was  
rushing  toward  his  ears,  and  in  a  moment  he  wouldn't  be  able  to  hear  anything  
anymore.  That  was  what  he  wanted,  wasn't  it?  The  silence  before  now  had  been  
deafening.  For  days  and  days  he  had  heard  nothing.  Before,  his  hearing  had  become  
so  sensitive  that  he  could  detect  the  sounds  of  insect  legs  moving  behind  the  fridge,  
of  dust  settling  on  window  sill.  He  had  waited  so  long  for  some  noise,  some  sign  that  
he  wasn't  alone  he  often  wondered  if  he  could  really  hear  those  bugs,  his  only  
friends,  or  if  he  had  made  them  up  just  to  feel  less  alone.    
  

The  sounds  of  insect  legs,  wings,  even  antennae  had  become  oddly  

comforting.  He  could  remember  the  days  when  such  sounds  turned  over  in  him  a  
slight  disgust,  a  reflex  to  kill  or  willfully  ignore.  He  felt  sorry  now  for  those  
moments.  If  he  could  miss  things  where  he  was  going  he  might  even  miss  the  tiny  
noises  that  had  massaged  his  solitude  and  the  creatures  that  made  them.  He  never  
thought  he  would  consider  missing  bugs.  Of  all  things,  bugs!    
  

He  would  miss  a  lot  of  other  things,  many  he  had  already  started  missing  

when  he  stopped  leaving  the  house,  others  even  before  that.  His  longing  had  
brought  him  to  this  point,  but  now  he  wondered  if  there  was  something  waiting  for  
him  after  death  -­‐‑  if  death  was  just  an  extension  of  all  that  he  was  feeling  in  his  last  
conscious  moment.  He  could  be  entering  an  eternity  of  longing,  of  the  ache  that  

Black  Cards  

1  

brought  him  to  throw  himself  down  to  death's  flat  embrace.  Or.  Hope  -­‐‑  because  now  
the  phone  was  ringing.  Ringing!  Someone  was  out  there,  trying  to  find  him.    
  

That  sound,  that  bright  purr  of  metal  clanging  and  curling  into  the  air  was  

changing  him.  He  felt  suddenly  uplifted.  Perhaps  he  could  even  alter  his  trajectory?  
Could  this  new  spirit  he  felt  lift  him  away  from  the  ground?  Back  up  and  up  towards  
the  window  he  just  left?  The  thought  came  as  a  comfort;  it  surrounded  his  face  like  a  
pillow,  ready  to  protect  him  from  the  approaching  asphalt.  He  thought  he  felt  
himself  begin  to  smile,  a  physical  sensation  hard  to  recognize.  His  face,  for  so  long,  
had  felt  so  heavy,  his  head  and  neck  and  limbs  dragging  slowly  down,  microsecond  
by  microsecond,  in  the  direction  they  were  now  speeding.  It  was  hard  to  tell  if  his  
feelings  were  real.  As  his  lips  spread  over  his  teeth,  they  prepared  to  separate  in  an  
instant,  to  let  in  all  the  air  rushing  around  him.  His  cheeks  rose  to  meet  his  eyes,  his  
eyelids  closed  tighter,  but  not  to  hide  from  the  world  rushing  past,  but  rather  bask  in  
its  memory  and  its  light.  Was  it  real  that  smile,  that  hope?  The  pillow  softened  
against  his  face,  the  ring  of  the  phone  floated  through  his  ears  and  he  felt  that  if  
death  were  an  extension  of  this  feeling  it  would  not  be  so  bad,  would  be,  in  fact,  
what  he  had  hoped  for  if  it  was  not  nothing  he  had  hoped  for,  not  just  an  end  to  
feeling,  to  the  pain  of  living  alone.  
  

But  then,  he  thought,  surely,  there  is  no  god  or  master  plan,  no  life  after  this  

one  he  had  just  thrown  away,  or  else  that  god,  that  plan  would  not  allow  for  this  
irony,  this  last  laugh  at  his  expense,  that  just  when  he  had  given  up  hope,  had  
physically  thrown  whatever  hope  was  left  in  him  at  the  ground  to  be  absorbed  
forever,  he  would  hear  the  bright  ring  of  the  telephone.  It  occurred  to  him  it  was  not  

Black  Cards  

2  

a  sound  of  hope  at  all,  but  the  sound  of  ridicule.  For  what  hope  was  left  for  him?  He  
was  about  to  die.  Perhaps,  if  he  had  been  stronger,  if  he  had  been  able  to  create  that  
hope  within  himself  he  would  have  been  rewarded  with  this  phone  call.  But  now,  
now  he  was  simply  being  mocked.  If  there  were  a  god,  the  one  on  the  other  end  of  
the  line  was  a  satirist.  
  

He  imagined  a  game  of  gods,  like  a  board  game,  in  which  dark  shadowy  

figures  loomed  and  strategized  and  tested  their  luck  until  the  only  piece  left  on  the  
board  was  him.  And  then  they  walked  away  and  left  the  board  to  rot,  abandoning  
him.  Alone.  There  were  no  other  pieces  to  interact  with,  no  cards  to  be  drawn,  not  
even  a  god  to  move  him  at  whim.  His  only  company  were  the  insects  crawling  across  
the  board,  who,  like  in  his  apartment,  came  out  of  the  shadows  when  everything  else  
was  gone,  finally  ready  to  reign.    
  

His  imagination  had  often  run  away  from  him  after  everyone  else  was  gone.  

It  always  started  as  a  comfort  -­‐‑  to  remember  the  feel  of  a  hand  in  his,  or  eyes  that  
met  his  gaze,  and  stir  that  memory  to  life.  He  would  imagine  simple  things.  The  
sound  of  wind  became  laughter,  became  a  party  in  his  living  room.  Friends  and  
strangers  whirled  and  mingled,  made  noise  and  conversation.  He  tried  to  join,  made  
comments,  made  jokes,  but  they  didn’t  respond.  He  could  only  listen  and  sigh.  The  
feel  of  concrete  beneath  his  feet  became  the  race  he  had  run  so  long  ago,  crowds  on  
the  side  cheering  on  the  moving  throng  around  him,  he  stumbled  purposely  so  he  
would  feel  another  runner  crash  into  him,  but  his  body  parted  their  movements  like  
a  rock  in  a  stream.  Always  they  moved  around  him,  too  fast  to  reach.  His  own  arm  
tucked  under  his  chest  in  his  sleep  became  his  partner's,  and  as  he  shifted  under  the  

Black  Cards  

3  

sheets  searching  for  the  warmth  of  that  body  he  could  only  find  empty  pockets  of  
air.    
  

Those  were  only  the  sad  imaginings.  The  ones  that  made  him  feel  at  best  on  

the  verge  of  tears  and  at  worst  as  if  he  were  sinking  into  a  hole  inside  himself.  And  
that's  often  where  the  mad  imaginations  began.  He  would  be  falling  inside  that  hole  
and  there  would  be  no  end,  he  would  fall  and  fall  and  nothing  would  stop  until  he  
was  flying  over  some  vast  space.  Sometimes  it  would  be  an  endless  field  of  graves,  
tiny  fingers  sticking  out  of  the  ground  every  few  feet;  other  times  it  was  an  ocean  
filled  with  the  dust  of  so  many  bodies  burned  that  it  had  thickened  to  a  watery  mud  
of  galvanized  ash.  His  feet  skimmed  the  surface  and  he  screamed,  his  voice  lost  in  
the  stormy  air  that  propelled  him  forward.    
  

And  other  times,  his  mad  daydreams  were  joined  with  the  fleeting  glee  of  

hysteria.  Like  when  he  imagined  they  had  all  come  back.  The  moving  of  a  machine  
somewhere,  long  left  operating  on  its  own,  mimicked  the  sound  of  moving  limbs  and  
he  would  see  them  marching  toward  him.  They  did  not  move  like  the  zombies  of  film  
with  their  arms  outstretched  or  their  bodies  dragging,  but  much  like  soldiers,  
organized  and  comprehensive,  a  unit  with  purpose  but  no  room  for  him.  Indeed,  not  
even  an  eye  or  ear  for  him  as  the  multitude  marched  right  by  and  out  into  the  
horizon  for  as  far  as  he  could  see  in  the  dusty  air.  He  longed  to  join  them  and  some  
days  he  did.  He  would  march  beside  the  army  of  the  dead  that  filled  his  dreamy  eyes  
and  imagine  they  were  all  headed  somewhere  together,  to  rest,  to  work,  to  live.  He  
would  walk  until  his  feet  were  blistered  and  his  mouth  so  parched  that  each  breath  

Black  Cards  

4  

tore  at  his  throat  as  if  he  were  swallowing  splinters  of  bone.  Exhausted,  he  would  
collapse  and  watch  the  army  disappear.    
  

Those  moments  were  not  the  moments  in  which  he  wished  for  death.  In  

those  moments  he  at  least  felt  alive.  Though  he  sometimes  got  lost  in  the  mirage  his  
mind  created  he  knew  he  was  alive  through  the  pain  in  his  feet  or  the  pangs  in  his  
heart.  It  was  the  other  days  he  longed  for  death.  The  days  he  felt  so  alone,  so  numb  
that  he  wondered  if  he  was  still  alive  at  all.  He  wondered  if  he  had  already  died,  if  he  
had  passed  with  the  rest  of  them  or  even  dreamed  the  whole  thing  in  a  deadly  sleep.  
Was  this  death,  this  dream  of  an  apocalypse,  this  solitary  existence  that  threatened  
to  stretch  ever  further  into  nothing?  He  wanted  to  know  for  once  and  for  all,  to  test  
it  out,  to  throw  himself  at  death's  embrace.  And  at  the  same  time,  he  wanted  nothing  
less.  For  if  this  was  death  or  if  it  was  life  it  was  still  all  that  he  had;  it  was  everything  
to  lose.  
  

Now  he  had  lost  it  whatever  it  was.  Now  that  he  could  see,  or  rather,  hear  

that  it  was  something  to  be  lost.    
  

He  had  heard  a  phone  once  before.  That  was  in  the  beginning,  on  one  of  his  

long  walks,  when  he  used  to  bother  looking.  He  had  been  walking  in  circles  for  
hours.  The  light  was  getting  low  when  he  heard  the  ring.  At  first  he  thought  he  
imagined  the  sound.  He  had  been  chasing  ghosts  all  day  in  shadows  and  whispers,  so  
the  soft  ring  of  a  phone  was  just  another  piece  of  daydream  until  he  noticed  it  was  
growing  a  little  less  faint  with  every  step  he  took.  He  slowed  to  concentrate  and  sure  
enough  as  he  moved  forward  the  sound  became  brighter  and  brighter.  He  picked  up  

Black  Cards  

5  

his  pace,  began  to  move  too  quickly  for  walking,  he  was  running,  racing  toward  that  
sound,  trying  to  reach  the  phone  before  whomever  was  on  the  other  end  hung  up.    
  

Exhausted,  panting  he  reached  a  phone  booth.  A  phone  booth!  He  didn't  even  

know  those  existed  anymore.  But  there  it  was  beside  some  broken  concrete  and  a  
somewhat  naked  looking  telephone  pole.  He  is  feet  crunched  broken  glass  as  he  
reached  for  the  receiver.  
  

"Hello?"  

  

No  response.  

  

"Hello?"  

  

Nothing.  

  

"Hello?"    

  

He  listened  for  breathing,  for  the  crackle  of  a  bad  connection,  for  wind,  for  

air,  for  anything.  
  

"Hello,  hello,  hello?"  

  

The  silence  on  the  other  side  of  the  phone  was  tinny.    

  

He  fell  to  the  ground,  the  receiver  still  in  his  hand.  

  

"Hello?  Hello?  Helloooooo."  His  voice  trailed.  His  breathing  was  heavy.  He  

realized  he  was  crying.  His  lungs  felt  so  full,  his  heart  felt  so  real  again.  He  trembled.  
"Is  anybody  there?  Is  anybody  there?"  
  

There  was  no  answer.  So  he  waited.  He  waited  until  he  fell  asleep  and  then  

woke  back  up  again.  And  when  he  woke  he  found  himself  slumped  on  broken  glass  
with  the  phone  receiver  cradled  under  neck,  pushing  hard  against  his  chin.  He  could  

Black  Cards  

6  

feel  the  streaks  where  his  tears  had  first  ran  a  trail  through  the  dust  on  his  face  and  
then  dried  like  the  fingers  of  a  ghostly  caress.    
        "Hello?"  He  managed  to  choke  out  one  more  time.  The  only  answer  was  
the  continuing  echo  of  silence.  So  he  got  up  and  walked  back  into  the  empty  streets  
that  were  only  his  once  again.  
  

He  listened,  now,  as  a  phone  rang  again.  What  would  he  say  if  he  answered?  

Would  he  try  again?  He  hadn't  uttered  a  word  in  so  long.  He  could  imagine  himself  
tempted  to  pick  up  the  phone  and  say  nothing,  to  listen  but  not  to  speak.  He  could  
imagine  not  wanting  to  put  that  other  person's  existence  to  the  test.  He  would  want  
only  to  hold  the  phone  and  imagine  the  breath  on  the  other  side,  escaping  into  the  
same  air  as  his,  perhaps  some  day  crossing  whatever  expanse  separated  them  and  
entering  his  own  lungs.  To  share  a  breath  with  someone  other  than  the  insects  and  
lizards  that  scurried  around  him,  other  than  the  shadows  that  followed  him,  that  
might  bring  him  peace  before  he  hit  the  ground.  He  wondered  again  if  his  hope  
could  lift  him,  if  faith  could  break  a  fall.  
  

He'd  had  it  in  the  beginning  -­‐‑  faith.  He'd  carried  it  on  his  back  like  a  burden.  It  

drove  him  through  the  streets,  it  moved  heaps  of  stones  from  which  shadows  fled,  
looking  for  bodies  and  breaths.  It  carried  water  to  the  voices  he  heard,  spilling  onto  
them,  quenching  only  dust.  It  pushed  him  to  the  lights  he  saw  at  night  on  the  distant  
horizon,  to  which,  no  matter  how  far  he  ran,  remained  there  on  the  horizon,  waiting  
for  him.  And  it  brought  him  back,  most  importantly,  again  and  again  to  the  home  he  
had  built  amongst  the  rubble,  to  the  fire  pit  where  he  cooked  the  stores  of  food  it  
helped  him  find.  But  faith  needed  him  as  he  needed  it.  When  he  stopped  feeding  it,  

Black  Cards  

7  

by  not  feeding  himself,  it  fled  his  body  like  blood  from  a  wound.  It  stained  the  
ground  around  him  too.  He  lay  there  darkened  in  its  pool  night  after  night  until  he  
finally  felt  he  could  abandon  it  and  leave  it  behind  him.  And  now,  now  it  was  back,  
with  a  new  vibrancy,  curling  through  his  ears  with  every  tinge  of  music  it  created.    
  

    

  

  

  

    

  

  

  

  

Black  Cards  

8  


