Daniel Hartridge was twenty-nine and had been sober seven days.
However, as this number represented a cumulative for the year and was by
no means consecutive, he felt no real trepidation towards the object in his
hand, which was a heavy, sealed bottle of Macallan 30 single malt scotch
whisky. It was a lovely thing to behold; the deep amber obscured the image
of his trembling hand as his fingers held the bottle by its back, the label’s
blue strip covered the veins where his hand met his wrist and he though of
the blood coming in purple and oxygenated and leaving as whiskey.
Don’t get started on that, he laughed to himself, or you’ll cut yourself
along the artery and abandon the plan.
A Douglas Fir sat hunched in the corner, broken at the top so that it
would fit beneath the low ceiling, and the fresh scent of pine perfumed the
air of his small apartment. The string of white lights that wrapped around
the tree shone dully in one half of the bottle in his hands while the other
half reflected the blue-red-yellow-blue-red-yellow Christmas lights clinging
to the square border of the only window in the room.
He sat before this window and looked out at the street four stories
below, divided by the iron bars of his fire escape’s railing and adulterated
by the falling flakes of snow like static on a television. Two black-clad
figures walked side by side with small, careful footsteps over the thin sheet
of ice on the pavement. He laughed at the more hulking of the two, whom
he assumed was a man, and thought that the conquest of flesh was a
fatuous one.
He did not have to verbalize this line of thinking to his wife, who
understood each and every unspoken thing to pass through Daniel’s mind.
He stroked his free hand down the back of her head, which did not exist,
curled his fingers through her long, smooth golden hair, which did not
exist, and with one finger carved a snaking canyon through the notches of
her spine, which, also, did not exist. This business of nonexistence made

her an exceptionally versatile spouse, capable of just about any imaginable
thing. She sat to his right, she sat on his left, she sat on his lap, staring out
the window, she chastised the invisible children and sent them to bed in
the studio apartment’s third room and afterwards sat facing him and
making love.
She was far more resilient this way and he appreciated her vastly
for the manner of invincibility she wore with such fervent grace. He had
memories of their songs beneath the unleaved weeping willows of autumn
and of their golden wedding on the cliffs of Gibraltar. He minded not that
she hadn’t flesh or blood, for memories, too, shared that vice, and he was
more than willing to forfeit the brief instant of contemporaneous love for
the perfection she allowed him in reminiscence; she had not aged a day and
her breasts did not droop below the highest of her ribs. These, he pushed
up towards her neck, which had always and would always retain that
youthful loveliness, her jugular pulsing with nothing, with nothing, with
nothing.
It was true that on occasion he had grown angry with her, furious
even. He threw her head in the oven, filled her pockets with stones and laid
her to rest in the river, slipped the blade of a kitchen knife up and under
the soft skin beneath her sternum and dug its tip into her heart. She died
in just the ways he wanted, brought him sorrow in just the ways he wanted
and then, when it was unbearable, she came back in all her former
splendor and threw her arms around his neck; loving, forgiving, divine.
She looked sadly at the tree, as it stood bowed in submission to the
limits of his world and mourned that it hadn’t a Star. “How,” she asked
lightly, “will the magi ever find you, darling,” and kissed him gently on the
cheek. And then sadly, “He’ll know it if you go through with it. He’ll know
all about that, darling.”
He wished that she hadn’t said it, that he hadn’t thought it. That was
all religion was about anyway, he said to himself, making the police a little
more omniscient and the punishment a little more severe. It makes it

damn difficult to trust anybody who puts too much stock in God. You never
know if they’re good or if they just don’t want to go to hell. The necessity of
hell and the promise of heaven was the brilliance of some ancient sage who
understood all about men.
It’s the problem with hell, with the devil, with it all. It all relies on a
very fragile order. Fragile as hell. He laughed at his line of thinking. One
rebellion can be two and given an eternity they’re damned certain to win
once. And when they win it’ll be good to be with them; they have far
greater capacity for cruelty and oppression. They’ve been numbed to the
inferno and understand that torture is not sitting in a burning room with
locked doors; rather, it is sitting in room of neutral comfort, with
unbreachable windows looking out into the virgins dancing naked in a
sunlit rose garden, with a door that only unlocks for one second every day
and whose knob is hot as an iron. That was torture; that was hell.
Abandoning hope took away all the pain of it.
Anyway it would be best, at the end of it all, to have abstained and to
have not believed and to be surrounded by those of similar conviction.
They would be the least volatile and the death of god would mean very little
to them and if they hadn’t killed before they probably wouldn’t now. That’s
what it was all about, he reassured himself, making the police a little more
omniscient and the punishment a little more severe.
“Oh, darling,” she replied, “you don’t have to go through with it.
Twenty-nine is mighty young, you know. Don’t you want the memories of
old age? Don’t you want them to fade and live each second and not
remember a thing? Won’t it be splendid to be old, darling?”
“No, no,” he thought, “I had memories of old age when I was a child.
It was a far lovelier old age than any that could come about and I’d prefer
to keep it as the only old age I enjoy. One hundred is such an arbitrary
number. If it waned and waxed like the phases of the moon, people
wouldn’t mind so much to die at twenty-nine on the twenty-fourth of any
month, especially December.”

“Twenty-nine years,” he thought, “it is long enough. Long enough to
be alive. I would rather sip from a single glass of single malt aged thirty
years in casks of sherry than wince through a bottle of cheap whiskey. I
would rather hold it on my tongue and savor it there and filter the taste of
smoke between the spaces in my teeth and let it hiss up towards my nose
and taste it once more there and then swallow and feel its warmth trickle
down and dissolve into my blood. I would rather that than to wince through
a bottle of cheap whiskey. I am through with wincing. I am through with
wincing and cannot afford a full bottle of the good stuff so I’ll take a glass.
I’ll take a glass.”
“Oh but darling, you can afford it. You have it right there.”
“Yes, well that’s the cost you know. That’s the gold with which I
made my purchase. I can’t really afford it.”
“It isn’t gold. It isn’t gold. I can bring you amber aged millennia in
casks of finest oak.”
“Your spirit isn’t mine darling. It simply isn’t and I wouldn’t enjoy it
as you do. Your spirit isn’t mine.
She wept and threw her head in the oven, filled her pockets with
stones and floated on towards the river, took the kitchen knife and twisted
it into her lungs until she wheezed like an accordion.
“Stop that,” he thought, “you know how it must be done.” But he was
thinking to no one and was alone in that apartment, holding not the
breasts of his wife but the warm glass of the bottle. Breaking the seal with
his thumbnail and uncorking with his teeth, he lifted the thick glass to his
lips and slowly drank from it. He held the liquid in his mouth and soaked
his tongue to the point of disintegration. That lovely smell triumphed over
the scent of pine and in a motion of vehement defiance he spat the liquor
out towards the tree in a golden mist. He took another drink and leaned
back and closed his eyes.
“The memories are another thing. A bottle of the cheap leaves you
clueless and ill, a glass of the fine only makes you wise and sharpens every

sense in your memory. Fool a memory and you fool the person. It’s all that
people are, just a bundle of memories. I’ll take the flawless drop of memory
and sacrifice that ocean of imperfection. Of course I would. Who wouldn’t?
I’d take a glass of the fine any day and not wince through the bottle of
cheap. It’s good to see when a thing is coming to an end and becoming
unaffordable and to savor what you have left rather than to push on
indefinitely and wince through the cheap. I’m done with wincing.”
And so he was. With the second sip of luxury still on his tongue, he
held the bottle high above his head and turned it over. So long had it sat in
its pretty box on the liquor store shelf that there was no real temperature
to it, only the feeling of wetness. It saturated his hair and then cascaded
down along his forehead, falling off his heavy brow and his sharp nose and
then bending back towards his body.
Then it felt warm. “Oh,” he thought desperately, “the warmth of love,
of a life fully lived, of family’s embrace!” He had them all. His wife had
returned and was holding him tenderly, whispering to him tenderly,
forgiving him tenderly, weeping and throwing her head in the oven
tenderly, weeping and filling her pockets tenderly with stones. “Do it
however you want, darling,” she said, “you do it for your spirits and I’ll do
it for mine. Children!” she called to the bedrooms of Daniel’s studio
apartment, “children! Grandchildren! Descendants of our love come forth
and embrace us, wish us farewell, tonight we journey on! Do not be sad, it
is a wonderful way to have lived and there is no more we could ask out of
life and not being greedy in our love we will turn now to the other!”
They came swarming from the doors and from the windows and from
the air vents and from the drain beneath the faucet. They came running to
embrace him and he felt their warmth and the goodness of having loved so
many and having birthed so many and felt their myriad small arms
grasping to make contact with his skin like the embrace of a pine. He
reached beneath the tree; beneath the daughter’s dresses sewn masterfully

by his wife, beneath the shoes of the sons whom he had provided for so
well.
He reached beneath the tree and found the present, purchased by
the wife and wrapped by the sons and ribboned by the girls and in
excitement tore open the glossy red-green wrapping and held a book of
matches. Tears came to his eyes and, “oh children and oh dearest you
knew just what I wanted. It’s perfect, perfect, perfect.” And striking one
with a trembling hand he placed the flame like a crown upon his head and
embraced the tree. He felt them all, felt the warmth of them all and the
warmth of the love of them all and the warmth of the blood of them all
which was his blood and he smiled as the ecstasy of having lived so well
consumed him and tickled him to the point of screaming and dancing
wildly about.
The couple on the street, trembling despite the warmth of their wool
countenance, can see the image of the flames dancing in the window and
dream chestnuts and stockings and the children roasting marshmallows
on long, silver tines. “Oh darling,” says the girl pointing and clinging to his
arm. The words curl up in wisps of white smoke which climb climb climb
past the window and past his blackened corpse and past the flame crawling
along the skeleton pine and disappear into the Christmas evening, “oh
darling. Pretty, pretty.”

!


