It was senior year and religion class never started on time. Father Nick was well over six
feet with a beer belly. He always smelled of Frankincense because of his heavy use of it during
Mass. John once asked him during religion class why all the incense? Father Nick reply was,
“Because I like it, you got problems with that, “he said sounding like a true Philly street thug.
He never rushed for anything or anyone. Most often, he taught religion class to several sections
of the smart kids and one section of the zoo population which consisted of future cops, criminals
and arm service recruits. The zoo population called Father Nick, Santa, because he looked the
part when he grew his gray beard. Twenty minutes pass the time the zoo class was to begin;
Father Nick strolled in and had everyone stand when he asked the question, “Each one of you
lads tell me your favorite prayer. It can be official or a made up one you used to ask Christ
assistance.”
There were several answers such as “Jesus, thanks for getting me out of that one”. The
phrase “that one” meaning outrunning the cops, drinking underage, and dealing pot or other
drugs. There were several legitimate answers; the Hail Mary was very popular.
” Well, my students, I was thinking over the weekend on what to call this class and we’ll
try to come up with one during our time together. For now, follow my directions. If you follow
them, I guarantee no one fails the class.”
Applauses filled the room with a couple shout-outs of, “Santa…Santa.”

Let it Bleed 2

“I want everyone to line up at the windows and look out to the Viet Nam memorial,” He
said watching the seventeen boys in sport coats and the school matrass blue ties line up and look
out the windows. Some began to wave at girls and friends waiting across the street to meet up.
Santa studied his wristwatch and addressed the boys once again. “I been informed the
McGee Stone Mason company will arrive in five minutes to add two alum names to the Viet
Nam monument. Damn shame dying overseas, makes me mad, damn mad.” Santa said the
students mimicking his gravelly voice, “Mad, damn mad!”
“Now quiet down, what I want you to do is in your best way you know is to say farewell
to these lads by saying a prayer you know or one you made up. Shout it out to raddle the gates of
heaven for these boys.” Santa yelled pounding the desk for emphasis.
So when the stonemason started the drill, shouts of thanking the Lord, and Hail Marys’
were yelled out in a confuse choir of baritones. Shane stated singing the new Stones tune,
Monkey Man, with his best friend John singing with him and eventually all the boys joined in,
“I’m a monkey, won’t you be my monkey girl to,” John sang to his girlfriend Sara standing on
the other side of the street
After about 5 minutes of singing, Santa whistled for everyone to stop and asked the boys
what the name of the song was. Almost in unison, the class answered “Monkey Man, Monkey
man!”
“Shane, your voice isn’t half bad. This class will be the Pious Monkeys”, he said sitting
down at his desk in front of the room.
“We’ll raddle the gates when a new name is added,” Santa said then looked at John still
at the window waiving at his girlfriend Sara.

Let it Bleed 3

“Sit down book worm!” Santa said making John rush to his seat. The name bookworm
used because John always had his head in a book and most times not listening to the lessons in
class. Thus, the reason he was in the Zoo class and received a lot of detention for his inattention.
“In an orderly fashion, meaning no yelling, study or talk among yourselves quietly while
I read my paper and while John reads whatever he is reading,” said the coolest priest at Father
Judge High School.

Eight years later in late August, John and Shane were early for the funeral mass. Shane
sitting shotgun in John’s late model Ford pickup. He closed his eyes and relaxed in his seat. The
AC was on and he was comfortable.
John counted the years since he regularly attended the church and grade school in front of
him. He thought it was about thirteen years since he left grade school, then High School, then his
off again and on again Community College attendance. The entire elementary school, church and
rectory were a light yellow gold color brick. It was a no nonsense look with only a crucifix on
the church door to show it was a place of faith. Nothing had changed about it except for the trees
growing taller and offering some shade from the sunny hot humid dog day in Philadelphia.
They were parked in the parking lot a short distant from the church. Next to the church
was the elementary school building. It was there just outside from the school entrance John
remembered first laying eyes on Sara. John remembered her getting out of her mother’s station
wagon. Rose, her mother, and Sara walked toward him. At first, John could not believe how big
Rose was. She was very tall with black hair tied in a bun. She was heavy, heavier than the fat
men he saw sitting in the bars when he walked to school. Next to Rose, her daughter held her

Let it Bleed 4

mother’s hand looking down to the cement. Sara was petite and shared the same long dark black
hair as her mother. She wore the dark blue uniform the girls wore at St. Jerome Elementary
School.
John held the safety positioned right outside the principal’s office when Big Rose and
Sara walked up to him and said, “Young man, could you direct me to the principal office,” Rose
asked bending slightly looking him in his eyes.
“Yes, Miss, I’ll have to tell Mother Mary you’re here first then I’ll come out to get you,
“John said. He was following the directions of Mother Mary who explained to him that he was
the guardian of the principal’s office and no one could just walk in unannounced.
Once he informed Mother Mary, he led mother and daughter to the office. He could not
stop looking at Sara and as he shut the door after their entrance, he was excited that she had
given him a peek.
John inhaled thinking about Sara, his first love who now laid in a coffin in the church. He
was sad and angry about what he knew. It made him crack his knuckles and he imagine running
from his car and smashing the face of the guilty party but he controlled himself. He wanted no
witnesses.
“Really, you got to do that,” Shane said annoyed at the cracking sound.
“Tell you what, being here makes me think when we first met, remember?” Shane said
with a smile.
“In the school yard, right?” John said.

Let it Bleed 5

“More to it bro, we really met when I lied to you to follow me to church ‘cause Mother
Mary wanted me to say prayers. We entered the church, knelled at the altar and said a prayer.
Remember what I said.”
“Keep lookout,” John answered remembering Shane hopping over the altar. He then
looked back at John and laughed. He entered the vestibule and after a few seconds left with a
bottle of wine.”
“You were freaked,” Shane said laughing.
“You only calmed down when I told you it wasn’t blessed yet.” Shane said laughing
looking at John to join in the fun but John kept his serious composure.
“Just trying to cheer you up my man,” Shane said.
“You gonna tell me what’s bugging you”, Shane said watching John looking out to the
church.
“You blame yourself for Sara? Did you fail a college class? Did you catch a disease off a
girl? Maybe your problem is you can’t get a girl? Did you get fired tending bar because of giving
free drinks to your friends? Did you give up pot and you’re having a hard time? What’s wrong
with you?” Shane asked with John shaking his head no, on each guess.
“What’s bugging me is your new cowboy duds,” John said with a broken front tooth
smirk looking at John who looked like he was in a Marlboro commercial.
“Yep, new black leather roper boots, new Levies, new black shirt and new Bolo tie with a
new motorcycle ornament. It’s a 650 Triumph. I’m like a Clint Eastwood type while you look

Let it Bleed 6

like a smaller mob guy, “Shane said brushing some ashes off his jeans. “I’m coolness in the
flesh”, he said.
” Notice your hair is longer, you gonna just let it wear off when it hits the ground,” John
said
“It’s my power dude, like the Samson cat in the Bible.”
“Dude, looks what’s maybe coming our way”, John said motioning to the dark figure
closing the church door.
Father Wright stood on the steps of the church entrance and looked in John’s direction. “I
don’t want to talk to you, I don’t want to talk to you,” John repeated hoping the priest would go
inside and leave him alone.
Both boys were imagining punching Wrights’ face until they saw blood. As John
continued to sing-song his chant, Shane touched the side of his right eye. The scar started close
to his right eye to the top of his cheekbone. Wright had hit him with the wooden dustpan brush
when Shane wore a cowboy Bolo Tie with the clasp of a Harley motor cycle. He challenged the
dress code in High School and defiance called for severe consequences. Wright wailed him
several times with the wood part of the brush. It was not until John ran to get Father Nick that the
beating stop. Shane went to public school after that.
Wright a tall slender man with wire rim classes walked toward the car and motioned for
John to roll down the window.
“Who is this now?” the priest said, his hand shading the sunlight from his eyes and
peering into the car. John said nothing but stared at him.

Let it Bleed 7

The priest came closer looking into the back seat of the car filled with books on
psychology.
“Oh, its little John, I recognized your father’s old pickup… here for a visit? How’s
college? You make your mother proud. I saw your mother the other day lamenting about your
father losing at the track. Said she get the donation over to church.”
John knew it was true, his father loved gambling but he and his mother never had to
worry about a roof over their head or eating meals. John never thought badly about his father.
“Don’t have money for you and by the way, everything’s great with my parents. Do not
need help from you,” John informed the priest.
“They and you are part of the flock,” Wright said pointing his finger at John.
“Am I and my father part of your flock?” Shane’s voice made Wright freeze. Wright
looked in the car again until he made out the face of Shane.
Shane’s father was the one that sent him to public school after Shane came home
bloodied. He told Shane not to make trouble. That he met such priest back in Ireland.
“Why yes Shane. I was out to see your father. He was tending to a neighbor’s fence. He
said he had nothing for block collection and to tell you the truth was a bit curt with me.” The
priest said folding his arms looking like he expected Shane to apologize.
“Got nothing for you Wright.” Shane said with a smile.
“Don’t worry about us in your flock; just tell us who is doing the service?” John asked.
“It is Father Wright to you,” Wright said pointing at John.

Let it Bleed 8

“You doing the service?” John asked again.
Wright stepped closer to the car bending a bit to look at John face-to-face, “forgot to say
Father after that question?”
“Okay, just this time, can you tell me Father,” John said moving his face closer to Wright
face. Wright stepped back.
“You two best put your best foot forward here in my church or I’ll asked you to leave,”
Wright said stepping forward to regain the step he lost but then retreated when John and Shane
stepped out of the pickup. John and Shane walked passed him Spassed the priest ignoring the
finger pointing and the demand to use his proper title, Father.
“I’ll find out who’s presiding,” John said.
After a few steps, John stopped and turned around to Wright, “Would like to discuss with
you some questions I have about Faith. Would that be okay after the service, Father?” John said
in a sincere respectful tone, which surprise Shane.
“Oh, yes to that John, maybe you wish to confess,” Wright said with John and Shane
continuing their walk to the entrance of the church.
“What this stuff you wanna talk about?” Shane asked John when they stopped at the
church entrance.
“You can be there and find out,” John said
Shane lit a smoke and slowly the neighborhood started to show. They watched Father
Nick come out of the church greeting mourners coming toward the church. It was six years since

Let it Bleed 9

their religion class but Father Nick looked good. He was hugging everyone, slapping people on
the back and doing many handshakes.
“How’s college kid?” Father Nick said punching John in the shoulder
“Cool, everything is cool”, John said patting the priest on the stomach.
“I’m Santa, what you want me to do,” Father Nick said pulling up his pants, “Loss some,
don’t you think?”
“Sure, sure, think I see it,” Shane said.
The priest laughed padding his stomach then became serious looking in John’s eyes.

“I know she was the girl always waiting for you after school, sorry for your lost Johnny
boy. I’m real sorry, the poor kid,” Nick said hugging him then Shane. “Remember, the Pious
Monkeys, be at the funeral, right”, Father Nick asked and after a nod from John and Shane, he
greeted the next mourners.
The boys watched the priest join with other mourners then looked at each other.
“Let’s go over and shoot the shit with the losers,” Shane said pushing John toward three
assorted color vans in the parking lot.
The red metallic colored van had an assorted array of the neighborhood stoners passing
around joints and pipes. Tiny, who own the van and weighed about 250 pounds, offered the boys
to join the group. Shane smoked some joint but declined the offer to sit.

Let it Bleed 10

“Don’t mind I save this for later men,” he said to the group while pinching the joint flame out
and putting it in his shirt pocket.
John thought some of the smokers on the van floor were laughing so hard they looked like they
were passing out. He wondered how they would make the funeral. He shook his head when the
joint was passed to him then visited the next van. Here GOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO
The many-dented gray primer looking van held the serious drug users. They had an equal
number of participants compared to the pot van. Shane thought their eyes were dead. Some were
nodding out and some were cooking up heroin.
“You assholes thinking about attending the funeral?” John asked. Blank eyes stared at him. He
started to asked the question again but was interrupted by the van driver, Dealer Dave “Man, oh
man, I’ll be in. Sara is cool. Did not know she was using. Heard she died at a traffic light after
she hit up, that right?” Dave said
“Yeah, in traffic. She had nodded out at a traffic light and when the cops got there, she was
dead. Blood was coming from a needle mark on her arm,” Shane said while John went to the last
van.
The third van was black. The bumpers and wheels were black. It riders were the boozers of the
neighborhood. The drink of choice were bottles of Jack Daniels. There were several empty
bottles on the floor of the van. Fred Martin was the driver and offered the boys to share from his
bottle. Fred keep saying in a low graveled voice, “Damn shame, damn shame someone going out
like that.” He looked at John and slapped him on the back. “Shame she went out like that,” Fred
said again offering both of the boys his bottle. Shane drank, John declined.

Let it Bleed 11

A large dented late model black Cadillac slowly stopped in front of the church. Rose, Sara’s
mother, opened the passenger side door and slowly pulled herself out the door. The driver, her
son, Dominic, and granddaughter, Sara, opened the trunk and assisted her with her walker. She
grabbed the walker, steadied herself then looked at the people milling outside the church. Her
eyes met John’s eyes and she started walking over to him trying to hold back tears. She stumbled
a bit while her son tried to steady her. John walked to meet her. She was bigger than when he last
laid eyes on her. She wore too much make-up, reeked of strong perfume and hard liquored. She
hugged John making him struggle to keep his balance. Shane grabbed his shoulder for support
then she and her granddaughter, sobbed uncontrollably.
“I have to raise her child, poor kid. Why she do it, why, why, why,” she screamed.
Her son asked her and little Sara to be strong, that both had to enter the church now.
After Rose cried on John’s shoulder, her son escorted her and little Sara to the church. “We’ll all
be with you,” John said. He felt like crying with her but he remained calm even with angry
simmering within.
“Let’s go Johnny boy”, Shane said. They headed over to the church steps.
Both boys with young and old neighbors walked up the steps. John and Shane nodded their heads
at prior classmates and friends. The boys shook hands with many young men they knew in high
school. Some were working in the steel mill, garages, post office and some were dealing drugs.
Some wanted to know what college was like. John heard many call him the nerd of the
neighborhood. Some yelled, “Worm, Worm”, at him kidding him about his habit of not hearing
anything or anyone while his head was in a book.

Let it Bleed 12

“Sit in the back, “Shane whispered to John but John headed for the second pew behind Sara’s
mother, brother and Sara’s daughter.
Shane sat in the back pew filled with neighborhood drug users. He sat, closed his eyes as if in
prayer, breathed in the Frankincense thinking the small amount of pot he smoked in the parking
lot was strong. It relaxed him enough to enjoy the fragrance.
The loud crying of Sara’s mother made Shane opened his eyes. He looked at John, and thought
he had never witnessed John racing to the front of the church. He figured it was his first love and
he was grieving.
The Mass started and Shane looked at the congregations, the older folks following along with
prayers and hymns while several of the younger members of the neighborhood were nodding out
and some meth-heads tapped their feet or drummed lightly on the pews.
He wondered how long the drug users would live and how many more funerals he would attend
because of an OD. It seemed that everyone was accustomed to death by OD. That the cause was
here to stay.
Sunlight pour through the stain glass windows and Shane loved the violet color hitting faces and
on the Stations of the Cross. He looked at each station and remembered the thoughts he had
when he was in elementary school. Christ dying without anyone from his gang helping him. He
knew John would have, no matter what Christ said. He watched John making a strain painful
face. “Like the agony in the garden,” he whispered to himself wishing he could help his friend
feel better.
John closed his eyes trying to think of a better time with Sara. He remembered many times
waking up just before dawn; Sara would have her arms and legs around him. She wore an oil that

Let it Bleed 13

smelled like flowers during springtime. He would gently touch her cheeks then lips, and she
would make gentle sounds of half waking and sleep. He would watch her for some time and then
gently kiss her lips and breast then rest his head on her pillow to feel her breath and warmth.
Shane breathed in the incense and sat back into the pew. He was enjoying the pot high and
laughed to himself that more than half the people there probably were holding drugs thinking
about the next joint or fix. He admired the dope fiends that showed up because Sara was a sweet
girl who would help anyone even degenerate dopers and drunks. She had the strongest faith out
of the entire neighborhood crowd and after her husband’s death; he sometimes picked her up on
his bike on Sunday mornings and drop her off at the church. It just didn’t make sense she died
hitting up but losing your mate to suicide must have pushed her to use. Last time he met her she
was getting help from the church. She was actually earning a few bucks cleaning the rectory and
cooking dinners for the priest. She often would take leftovers home for the household.

The Mass was finishing up and some of the van crowd shuffled out the entrance early. Shane
stood up also and headed for the entrance. John looked around to Shane and followed him out.
From the distant parking lot came the smell of cigarettes and pot coming from the vans. Shane
joined John at John’s truck; he was getting cigarettes from his glove compartment and then
joined Shane. They both agreed it was a decent service with Father Nick.
Soon everyone else in church stared coming out. Christopher and some others lifted the coffin in
the black Herse and started there journey to Resurrection cemetery, about a 30-minute drive up
the Boulevard. Shane asked John if he wanted to leave his car in the lot and both could take

Let it Bleed 14

Shane’s cycle to the funeral. John agreed but before Shane kick started the Harley, John told him
to wait. He had to ask Wright something.
“Okay man, go talk to the priest, tell him I’m crazier since he hit me with that wood brush,
“Shane said touching the scar near his right eye.
“Nothing ever happen to him for that cause he’s a priest, nuts to that”, John said spitting on the
church steps with feelings of anger and contempt welling up in his mind.
John cracked his knuckles while taking deep breaths as he walked up the church steps. His heart
was racing, he felt like knocking statues over, throwing mass books at the stain glass. For
seconds, he watched Father Wright at the altar. He witnessed the vision all through grade school.
A priest looking like he’s contemplating Christ sacrifice with the sun shining through the stain
glass with fragrance of frankincense penetrating the silence of the church. He contemplated this
vision and he felt the anger in him shoot up his spine. It made him hang onto the alter rail.

Shane followed John back into the church, sat down, and took the half-smoked joint out of his
pocket and lit it. He figured the heavy incense would mask the pot smoke. He watched John
looking like he was going to rise from knelling at the altar rail but then knelling back down. He
did this action a few times. While knelling his face held anguish. Shane thought John’s face
looked somewhat like Christ looked like in the station of the cross, agony in the garden.
Shane looked at the Christ on the cross. He hung over the altar with golden lights shining on it
from the ceiling. He wondered if Christ was a good carpenter. He be willing to compare his
work with the Christ any day of the week. It would have to be man to man, no super hero stuff

Let it Bleed 15

involved. He then laughed about his thought until he watched John wiping his eyes. Shane
thought Christ needed a guy like John. John would have busted some
Roman heads to save JC. Shane remembered how John screamed at Wright when he was using
the dustpan brush to beat him. With blood flowing in his eye, he heard John yelling to Wright,
“Get your fucken’ hands off him!” Wright started to beat him harder. Shane put his hands on his
desk to not fall down. He knew he had to take it because smacking a priest was taboo. Through
the blood, he watched John running out of the classroom yelling for help. The rest of the class
watched him suffer blow after blow with blood running down his face with Wright yelling,
“There are rules to be obeyed. You must learn right from wrong.” Then John came back with
Father Nick who broke up the beating sending Shane home and excusing Wright from class.

Shane took a deep breath, looked at Christ on the cross and thought maybe he should play it safe
and say a prayer. He thanked JC for his trade, carpentry, pot, motorcycles, incensed and a good
friend. He again focused on John.
John stood up from his knelling and hopped over the altar rail. The joint in Shane hand went out
so he popped in his mouth and chewed on it wondering what was John up to.
“Wright, I’m here to ask you questions,” John said slowly waking closer to Wright.
The priest made the sign of the cross, with stern dark eyes turned to John, and said in a slow
deliberate voice, “That’s Father Wright to you, are you here to discuss your father’s gambling?”
Wright said folding his arms and straightening his posture.
“No, no problems at our house no matter what my mother said”, John said.

Let it Bleed 16

“Yes, your mother is devoted to the church and your father may come back to it for your
Mother’s sake.”
“My mother loves my Dad even when he gambles; she loves me when I’m bad. We all love each
other in the thick and thin of life, Priest.” John said with arms at his side making a fist with each
hand.
“Not supposed to be near the altar,” Wright yelled pointing his finger at John.
“She told me what you did,” John said inching closer and closer toward Wright.
“What’s this about boy”, Wright said putting his hands on his hips. He had a stern stance. All he
needed was a dustpan brush, Shane thought.
“Sara told me what you did”, John said with Wright staring at his accuser. Shane continued to
chew the joint and wonder what was happening.
“She said it was after she cooked you priest a meal of pork chops and after all the other priests
retired to their rooms. You were helping her clean up.” John said with clenched fist.
“You were giving her wine to drink and she stated to tell you about her husband hanging
himself. Then you held her and she cried about how alone she felt. Then you made your move.
She told me about the affair and you using the pastor’s bedroom when he was doing home visits.
She said you use to laugh about it and how you always made her drink.” John said watching for
any sign of remorse in Wright’s eyes.

“Now John, she’s gone. There is no use to bring up the past. She seduced me and I’ve confessed
it.” He said standing straight and pointing his finger at John.

Let it Bleed 17

Father Wright stood his ground, took out his Pen-sized Holy Water Sprinkler from his shirt
pocket and said, “ Silence young man, I want you to knell for a blessing”, he said staring to
anoint John with holy water

“She told me when she showed up to cook one Sunday the pastor met her. He called her a
temptress. Told her she had almost ruined a good priest. Told her she was forbidden from
church. That she was not welcome anymore. She told me she ran out and into her car, went home
and grabbed her daughter and cried losing everything she thought loved her.” John said with rage
in his voice.
Wright kept telling John to knell and asked forgiveness for making this accusation.
“Can’t you admit it, say you’re sorry. You were supposed to help her. If you did, she be here
alive. You’re a priest. You ain’t supposed to do harm,” John yelled. He began to sob. Deep
anguished sobs filled the Church.
Wright started sprinkling Holy Water from his sprinkle pen. As John’s face was wet with holy
water, Wright started his blessing in the name of the father, son and Holy Ghost.

John cried in place looking like he could not move any more while the holy water splashed on
him. He remembered Sara scared hopeless voice saying it was her fault. While John yelling at
her that that was bullshit but she believed it was her fault. With this thought, John screamed at
Wright, “Your fault, you should have helped her instead of throwing her away“, he screamed.

Let it Bleed 18

Shane sat in amazement. He thought John cries sounded like some suffering animal. He saw the
same act in High School. Priest were above everything and everyone. Always forgiven no matter
what happened. He remembered his father telling him he seen the same abuse in Ireland when
his father was washing his wound.
“Not this Time,” Shane whispered. In a flash, John felt someone from behind grab his shoulder
and pushed him aside. It was Shane. The scar on his cheek and lips reminded John of a crazed
jack-o'-lantern. In one quick move Shane body punched Wright in the kidneys. With a gasp,
Wright fell hard on the white marble floor. A terrible groan filled the church followed by crying
then pleading to both Shane and John,” don’t hurt me, a man of god,” Wright shouted. Shane
stood over him and shouted, “How’s the agony priest, “he said kicking him in the ribs. Then
looked at John. “You good bud,” he said. John nodded.
John looked over Wright and said, “Don’t’ bother my mother ever again and you say nothing
about my father.” Then John made a fist and was just about to deliver a blow to Wright’s head
until Shane pulled him back.
“Enough, no more, “Shane said with John beginning to cry.
“Go into the vestibule and get me a bottle, “Shane said making his command sound like he was
scolding a bad dog. He held his eyes on John until John started backing away.
“One other thing Johnny, get me some Frankincense,” Shane said.
“Don’t think about calling cops about what happen here today. We’ll tell them the reason and
even if we have troubles about it, you’ll be found out.” Shane said looking at Wright. With some
effort, Wright nodded his head.

Let it Bleed 19

John came back with a bottle of wine and can of Monastery Brand Incense. He kept whipping his
eyes mumbling, “She would still be alive…still alive”. John said looking down upon Wright.
Again, he tried to attack the priest but Shane grabbed hold of his jacket collar.
“Enough, we’re not killers,” Shane said dragging John to the entrance yelling for him to settle
down and hold the wine.

Once outside Shane stood face to face with John slapping him while John cursed and cried
yelling he should kill the priest. Shane continued to slap and shake John until they looked at each
other eye to eye.
“Get a grip; we need to get to the cemetery. Remember the Pious Monkeys have to be there,”
Shane said with John nodding his head.
“Yeah, I remember, raddle the gates to see …see her off, but that’s all bullshit. What he did, he
should pay for it, pay for it,” John said wiping his eyes.
“We’re not murderers, we’re not gonna kill anyone, Shane said.
“All he had to do was listen, she would’ve still be here, “John kept mumbling as they headed
toward the bike.
Shane mounted the Harley and kicked started the bike until the familiar rumble filled the parking
lot.
“Get the fuck on and hold on, “Shane yelled thinking his friend looked drained with bloodshot
eyes.
“We got to make time. You okay Johnny,” Shane asked turning to look him in the eyes.

Let it Bleed 20

“No, no, no,” John said with Shane shaking his head making Shane yell to him over and over,
Get on, get the fuck on”. Shane reached out pulling John on and said, “Hold tight”! Once both
were in position Shane yelled, “Let’s fly!”

Shane did not think about the speed limit, he had that young man’s assurance that he could
handle anything. He keep yelling for John to hang on as he zigzagged between cars with purse of
speed when coming up on a yellow light. On a straightaway, he made time. Some other bikers on
the roads cursed at his antics but for the most, they nodded their heads thinking the cowboy
could sure ride. Others in autos cursed and gave the finger. One cop parked at Burger King
shook his head and continue to eat his whopper.
Soon, both boys saw the black iron gates of the cemetery. John started to sing, “I’m nothing but a
monkey”. He remembered that time in the classroom signing to his Sara on the other side of the
street.
“Won’t you be my monkey girl too,” He sang feeling like someone had shot a hole in his heart.
Shane heard parts of John tune over the engine. With sobs and screams, John keep singing.
“Rock ‘en’ Roll “, Shane yelled making a hard turn sliding into the entrance.

THE END


