When Rydell Cooper’s girlfriend Lissa broke up with him on a Friday in April 2012, he
reacted badly, some might say petulantly, and shouted words he would later regret,
including fat and liar and big fat liar, sour inventive induced by his estimate that Lissa had
cooed I love you well over a thousand times during their two-year relationship, falsehoods
all.
Lissa agreed with Rydell’s calculation, but not his accusation. She had loved him quite
well until their twenty-third month when he unexpectedly quit his United Parcel Service
job to spin signs. Spinning looked stupid and paid poorly. By failing to discuss the change in
advance he had broken her trust. Loser. The word hung in the air like cold fog.
Unfair, countered Rydell. He was doing the best he could with what he had. His father
didn’t write monthly checks for tuition and rent, unlike hers. Besides, he had saved up so he
could carve out time to rehearse with his band. She knew how important his music was.

Didn’t she want him to happy? And what about his crunchy baked apple recipe and their
Imagine Dragons tickets? Didn’t any of it matter?
The discussion ping-ponged for a couple hours and in the end Rydell failed to make his
arguments stick and Lissa wouldn’t budge. Their relationship was over. Done was done.
She was moving on.

The next morning, after an uncertain night, Rydell woke with a headache and went to
the kitchen. Lissa was sipping tea and petting her pug Berry.
“I’m moving today,” she said.
Rydell balked. “To where?”
“Nickeltown. I couldn’t tell you yesterday. It was too hard.”
“Nickeltown is a dump. Nobody lives there.”
“I do,” said Lissa quietly.
“That’s insane,” said Rydell, hardening.
“I know,” said Lissa.
“Why?” asked Rydell. She didn’t answer.
Rydell’s mind reeled. Nickeltown was an isolated world-war-two era neighborhood
near the industrial section of town accessed by a narrow bridge. It was made up of tiny
houses, cyclone fences, crumbling chimneys, and old men picking cigarettes butts off the
street. It didn’t suit Lissa. She was an Ikea-West-Elm kind of girl who liked her comfort and

safety. Clearly she had been planning the break-up for weeks. Now Rydell wanted her out,
wanted to throw her out. He wanted to grab her face and pinch her mouth and make it tell
him why she was leaving.
Berry, upset by the discussion, jumped off Lissa’s lap and waddled over to Rydell, who
picked up the pup. He felt horrible, awash with hate, a deep slaking rage. He clutched Berry
and stroked his head. He loved him as much as he was beginning to despise Lissa.

Eight hours later, Rydell was back at his apartment, sitting on the lanai, munching a hot
pocket, and ruing his now exorbitant rent. He had spent the day helping Lissa move to
Nickeltown. Below him, late afternoon sun glanced off the swimming pool, its reflection a
reminder of every sunset they had ever shared.
Rydell had known Lissa was backing away, creating space, and he had tried but failed to
change the momentum, uncover the truth of her dissatisfaction. The last time they had
made love, he saw her grimace slightly, a fleeting expression. When he pressed her
afterward, she laughed him off, claiming gas or a bad angle, no mention of anything else. He
responded casually, like usual, but the grimace was stuck in his head.
Rydell wiped tomato sauce from his lips and licked the back of his hand and noticed a
bag of kibble hiding behind a tattered deck chair. Lissa had forgotten Berry’s food. Dang.
The pup would be starving. One more trip to Nickeltown.


A few minutes later, Rydell was knocking on Lissa’s front door. He waited and scratched
at a speck of loose paint and knocked harder, yelling her name, expecting her to appear in a
ponytail and curtly thank him. Nothing. Strange. She was just here.
Rydell placed the kibble against the door, phoned Lissa, and got her voicemail. As he left
a message, he saw Berry walk around the side of the house, his black snout sniffing the
ground. It was strange to see the pug outside, so careless of Lissa.
Rydell knelt and stroked Berry and fed him and remembered bringing him home and
how Lissa had stirred grape jelly into warm milk and dribbled it into the pup’s mouth.
Afterward she had told everyone that it was lingonberry jam, a lie to explain the name
Berry. Grape, lingonberry? Who gives a shit? Why lie about jam and jelly? It didn’t make
sense. Big Fat Liar. Nothing about Lissa’s leaving or Nickeltown or the locked house made
sense. Nothing.
Rydell cuddled Berry and kissed his head and ignored his mushroomy breath. On his
way out, he slammed the wobbly gate and the pickets shook uncontrollably.

For the next few weeks, Rydell struggled. He was too depressed to get out of bed. He
lost his job spinning signs after which he settled into a joyless routine of pot smoking and
HBO in the morning and guitar picking and masturbation in the afternoon. When friends
called to invite him out, he excused himself. He was too busy composing, even though his
band had fallen apart shortly after the move.

During this time, many of Rydell thoughts centered on one of Lissa’s biggest complaint,
which was that he lacked initiative and focus, a serious attitude. When they had first met,
she had loved his laidbackness, his chillness, his fuzzy wise-cracking jokiness. Sure,
sometimes it slipped over into inconsequential risky behavior and a bit of laziness, but,
what the fuck, he was only twenty-three! Give him a break.
Rydell also began to fixate on feeling shut out and isolated. Enclosed spaces, such as
revolving doors, began to bother him. Elevators made his mouth dry and bathroom stalls
his skin crawl. The idea of Lissa living alone in Nickeltown without him added to his angst.
Depression often subverts reality and drags people into unanticipated misery, which
happened to Rydell. He couldn’t sleep or eat and lost weight. His enmity toward Lissa grew.
He blamed her grimace for his failed band, Berry’s mushroomy breath, and the swimming
pool’s algae. He nursed his gnawing, gnashing anger into the delusion that he had a birth
defect or, worse, was a birth defect, a red flattened deformed ear, overripe and irreparable.
He had seen such a deformity once and it had sickened him.

One morning, after one of many sleepless nights, Rydell worked up the courage to drive
to Nickeltown to see Berry. It had been five weeks. He hadn’t heard from Lissa and figured
she would be in class.
He felt nervous driving, as if he was returning to the scene of the crime. When he
arrived, he parked and pulled the car door latch. The door wouldn’t open. He checked the
lock and tried again and began to feel anxious. Same result. He hooked his index finger over

the chrome lever, pulled several times and pushed, trying to break the seal. Nothing. He
used his other hand. Nothing. He tried the opposite door. Nothing.
Rydell sat very still inside his car and the space closed in around him. He stared at
Lissa’s house, irrationally hoping for help. It stared back, inert, ugly, and devoid of
character. He screamed and pounded his steering wheel and began to cry uncontrollably
and started the engine and sped home and exited, clutching his chest and wheezing. What
the fuck was going on? Lissa had turned his car into a prison cell. He was cursed. It didn’t
matter if it was inside or outside his head. It was real. She was erasing him from her life.
Rydell laid down on his car hood and tapped his chest and caught his breath and stared
up at the sky and began to plot. He needed a solution. He needed to get better. It was going
to be a long summer.

There is something meaningful about being alone in a small familiar place, examining
threads of memory, seeking answers and making connections, even if you don’t know
where they will lead you.
This is what Lissa thinks as she sits at home in the evening watching TV inside her
Nickeltown house. It was her great grandmother’s years ago and she often visited as a kid
when it was in better shape, the fence straight, the yard bursting with flowers. She
remembers sitting at a small kitchen table and eating blueberries and feeling a summer
breeze on her face. She remembers her great grandmother’s lilac-scented handkerchiefs
and the hallway of sepia-toned photographs, especially the one of her great-great

grandfather in uniform, the protector. And she especially remembers her grandmother’s
pug, Wilma, a breed she has loved forever and her motivation for owning Berry.
Lissa knows the house is in terrible shape and although she is too busy to do much, she
has tried to make it attractive and functional, appealing. Living here is a favor to her father,
who owns the house and can no longer afford to pay her rent, because of unanticipated
family medical expenses. He plans to fix it up so that when Nickeltown turns around he can
profit. Lissa’s temporary duty is to keep the dwelling from going entirely to pot.
Lissa has been worried about Rydell ever since breaking up with him. He was always so
sensitive, despite his chillness. People warned that ending your first great love would be
bad, especially for him, the guys feel so crushed. She feels bad too, but different, more
pragmatic and less romantic. Things had run their course. Rydell wanted to focus on his
music. They were never going to be together forever.
Still, she knows she made it worse by shutting down and blowing small problems out of
proportion, as an excuse to leave, not lies, but half-truths at best. She was too embarrassed
to tell him about the house and knew it would be too small for both of them.
She also feels bad about separating Rydell from Berry. On moving day, when he
thoughtfully returned Berry’s kibble, she hid in the bathroom crying, listening to her phone
ring. She didn’t want him to see her misery. She should have been more open.
Sometimes at night, Lissa senses her great grandmother in the house, a large woman
with thick gray hair, a firm disciplinarian who knew how to take care of business. One
summer afternoon years ago, Lissa had watched her remove a hornet’s nest with a bat and
hose. The writhing insects didn’t stand a chance.


It's mid-summer and hot in Nickeltown. Rydell is sitting inside a white panel van
watching Lissa’s house through binoculars. It’s his new job, watching. He doesn’t entirely
understand it but will soon. After giving up his apartment, pawning his guitars, and
exchanging his car for a vehicle Lissa doesn’t know and can’t curse, he is beginning to feel
like his old self again, chill.
Although repulsed by the house, Rydell’s goal is to become as intimate with it as he was
with her body. He’s making progress. He knows it is a tight six hundred square foot
rectangular box with stained cupped siding and a mossy roof. Moldy aluminum windows
and a rickety wood door form its face. Blotchy brown grass and dandelions fill the front
yard and busted concrete along a garbage can alley the back. The ground smells like a super
fund site. Exactly ten strides separate the picket fence gate from the front door on which
Lissa has hung a home-sweet-home sign.
Rydell watches Lissa too, noting her clothes, moods, and likely menstrual cycles. When
she left this morning, she was wearing a Rhianna tee shirt, jean leggings, and red tennis
shoes, her brown hair up in a bun, her face bracketed with sunglasses. As he focuses in on
her body, he locks onto its physical traits, its tender corpuscles and nerves and connective
tissue, and then on its presence, its effect on him, still a mystery of the highest order. As she
walks toward him, he takes in her breasts and moves up to her collarbones, lips, and hair.
When she turns away, he scrutinizes her neck, back, and rear. He did so enjoy exploring
her.

Sometimes, in middle of the day when she is gone, Rydell walks casually up to the living
room window and taps until Berry pokes his head between the curtains and presses his
wet black nose against the glass. It pains him to see the little guy trapped and alone.
He hasn’t gone inside yet but will soon some evening when Lissa is gone. Through the
curtains he can see an old sofa, coffee table, and green sisal rug in the living room and,
further back, a chrome dish rack, wood recipe box, and Jägermeister bottle candle on the
kitchen counter. The candle pleases him. It was his homemade gift to Lissa.
In the evenings, miles from Nickeltown, Rydell parks behind a strip mall to recharge his
gadgets and sleep. Strangely and coincidentally, Lissa has been texting him recently, trying
to make up for her bad behavior, he assumes. She isn’t ready to talk but seems to enjoy the
coy messaging. He enjoys letting her think that there are no hard feelings between them.
When he dispatches his messages, he whispers, I love you Lissa.

Rydell settles on a plan. He will bring Lissa to her knees in the most delicious way
possible. He will euthanize Berry and stuff him. Then he will place the dog inside the house
next to an open jar of lingonberry jam. It will be perfect, Berry’s alert pose, Lissa’s
awareness of Rydell’s touch, the verisimilitude of it all. He has considered other ideas, like
boiling or freezing Berry, but how uncreative. The timing is delicious too. He won’t move
too quickly, so Lissa will discover Berry missing, cry, search, put up posters, and worry
horribly, until Rydell reveals the final truth. It may be his chillest idea ever. He has already
bought the lingonberry jam.

His biggest concern is how to end Berry. He could slowly poison him and let the vet
finish the job, but how? Bad meat? A pill? All the options hurt his heart, but the beloved dog
is the best way to trigger Lissa’s anguish. Besides, struggling through adversity makes you
stronger, as Lissa liked to say.

One afternoon while Rydell is snoozing in the van he hears a sharp knock. It’s the police.
They want to know what is he doing? He says he is working on someone’s house, waiting
for them to show up. The cops laugh. Look at this place. Who works on their houses? They
question him and tell him to go away and say that the next time they see him he better be
holding a hammer.
The incident concerns Rydell. He has been procrastinating. He stops parking in
Nickeltown during daylight hours and moves forward.

It’s late summer and Lissa and her father are working on the house. The front yard is
full of laurel trimmings and the door is open, so Berry can come and go. The fence has new
pickets and some siding has been replaced. She is happy to see progress. It means she can
move out soon.
Lissa and her father run to Home Depot for painting supplies and inside she thinks she
sees Rydell at the end of an aisle holding a drill, pointing it at her. She turns to her father to
mention it and when she looks back the person is gone. It must have been her imagination.

Rydell was such a goof, always horsing around. She wouldn’t mind talking to him again now
that some time has passed.
Lissa and her father check out and, as he prepares to exit his parking spot, a white panel
van appears and blocks them in. Lissa can’t make out the driver through the van’s dark
windows, but what a prick. He’s probably on his cell phone. They wait a tic but the van
won’t budge. Finally, her father begins to back up and it drives away.
Back home, Lissa sees the front door ajar and her heart leaps up. Berry. She forgot
about him. Luckily he rarely strays far when he gets out. How careless of her. She thought
she left the door shut. She and her father search the house and yard. Nothing. They break
up and scour Nickeltown, ringing doors, calling out Berry’s name, but no pug. After three
hours of searching, they stop looking. Lissa is a wreck. Not only has she lost her dog, she
has dishonored the house of Wilma.

A few nights days later, Rydell is inside Lissa’s house, laying on her bed. He knows her
patterns and she is out for the evening. He pets Berry and takes in the scent of Lissa’s
bedsheets and remembers trying to please her and failing. Berry yips and jumps off his
chest and waddles toward a dim light in the living room as if someone is out there.
This is Rydell’s fourth time inside the house, the first since taking Berry. He enjoyed
watching Lissa and her father anxiously search the neighborhood and how she pounded the
sidewalk in frustration. Now she knows. And soon she will know more.

The house is inhospitable, for sure, despite Lissa’s efforts to warm it up, but Rydell is
still drawn to it. Sometimes he catches himself staring at nothing, a floorboard or hole,
searching for meaning. Fruity, metallic, and sour odors seep up from underneath the
floorboard. Patches of bubbled, shredded wallpaper remind him of a tree lichen he used to
see on hikes with Lissa. When the heat comes on, the air tightens.
Each time Rydell lingers longer. He knows he should hurry up, that he must hurry up,
but Berry is a problem. He wishes the dog would get sick and make his job easier.
Before Rydell leaves each time, he rearranges some of Lissa’s things to keep her off
balance, bulletin board paper, pots and pans, her underwear drawer. Tonight he pees in the
toilet and floats one of Berry’s turds on top and watches it slowly dissolve.

Rydell decides he must make one more dry run. He has held Berry for two weeks and
time is running out to make a big impact. Perversely, he can’t get enough of being in Lissa’s
ugly house, imagining the outcome, so he has made a firm appointment with the
taxidermist. He must deliver Berry within a few hours of death.
The last problem Rydell needs to solve is how to pose Berry for maximum effect. The
front window sill could work. Or next to the Jägermeister candle. In the closet? Or perhaps
sitting on the toilet seat cover. So may options, so few pugs. He’ll decide tonight.
It is 10:00 PM when Rydell parks in Nickeltown. He leaves Berry in the van and walks to
Lissa’s house dressed in black. He goes around back and pries open her bedroom window,
his usual entry point and snakes through it. Something feels wrong. Lissa’s bed is gone. He

flips on his flashlight. The room is cleared out. Nothing is left except scuffed wood floors
and the wallpaper. He searches the rest of the house. It is cleared out too, except for a chair
in the middle of the living room. Lissa is gone.
Rydell sits in the chair and considers his options, his mind racing. He can’t believe how
badly he has fucked up. He’ll have to reformulate the plan. Maybe his job is done? Maybe
separating her from Berry is good enough? What if she has dropped out of school and
moved home to her parents? The thought of re-planning exhausts him alongside his deep
sense of failure at failing to follow through.
It has been a couple nights since he last texted Lissa, so he sends a what’s up message
and receives a hey. He can’t ask if she has moved, that would tip her off, so he keeps the
exchange going by lying about how much he loves culinary school. Lissa’s responses seem
different, more upbeat, and to his surprise she asks if she can phone. It has been months
since so he says okay and when his phone rings he feels a surge of energy and remembers
the day he left the dog food.
They talk for thirty minutes about nothing and it’s easy. He asks about Berry and she
doesn’t mention anything. Still a liar. She’s probably too embarrassed. She has moved in
with friends and lives closer to school. She hated Nickeltown and her great grandparent’s
old home. Her father made her live there.
“Oh,” says Rydell, surprised. “I thought you picked the house, traded it over me.”
“Oh no,” says Lissa. “Things were so weird. I’m sorry. I never told you. You’re right.
Nickeltown is crap. Total crap.”

Before they hang up, Lissa tells Rydell how much she misses his music.
Rydell is stunned, flummoxed by the new information. He opens his backpack, removes
the lingonberry jam, and tests it with his pinky finger, one, two, three tastes, sweet and
sour, tiny seeds coating his tongue. He takes in the empty, curtain-less room. He has given
up everything, his music, his money, his interests, and wellbeing to nurse a fucked-up
malformed obsession. Berry is in his van right now, a touch of rat poison away from death,
laying on a soft plaid blanket in the dark, panting and confused, missing Lissa as bad as
Rydell.
Jesus, I am a loser, thinks Rydell, as removes his balaclava. He stands and brushes
himself off. He is glad to be leaving the horrible house and Nickeltown’s blight, glad that he
can abandon his plan. There is no point in going back out the bedroom window. He grabs
the front door knob. It spins loosely in his hand. He tries again. More spinning. He tries
again and again and an eerie feeling settles in and fear and adrenaline kick in. He won’t
check any other openings. He knows what he will find. He sees images, Lissa dribbling red
milk into Berry’s mouth, himself screaming big fat liar, his naked body on top hers,
Nickeltown’s doors clacking open and shut, a shabbily dressed mother grasping a child’s
hand, and a little girl eating blueberries, juice staining her teeth and running down her face.
He knows deep inside that he is a terrible person and that something bad is coming and
that he deserves whatever it is. He hugs an imaginary guitar and sings quietly to Lissa.
Blackbird singing in the dead of night
Take these sunken eyes and learn to see

All your life
You were only waiting for this moment to be free
He finishes singing, calms his mind, presses his left hand to the living room window and
slams his right fist through the pane of glass.

A pug’s wrinkled face, its most distinguishing feature, is also the source of the breed’s
name, pugnus, or fist, derived from the Latin, which Rydell remembers when he wakes up
on the floor of Laura’s house surrounded by broken glass. Berry is staring at him, the dog’s
bulging eyes a few inches from his face. Rydell sits up and feels his bleeding hand and
begins to suck his knuckles. He is hurt but okay. The living room window is shattered. He
has no idea how Berry got in until he sees the door ajar.
Berry yips and whines trying to get Rydell to play. The dog nudges him and he crawls to
his feet and picks up his backpack and stumbles out into a yard full of lilacs, hundreds of
them. The sun is coming up and he pauses to take in the sweet perfume. He is sad. It is his
last visit.
He puts Berry in the house and closes the door and walks out to the sidewalk and turns
right. He passes his van and his pace quickens and he heads north to Division street and the
Nickeltown bridge and safe passage from hell. He does not look back. He will never look
back. He is finally over Lissa.


