The juez introduced the children to the kin they had never met. He told José, “Your
tíos are going to take you home with them.”
“What about Rosa?”
The judge looked away. Rosa stared at him. She sat on a tattered loveseat holding
onto her brother’s hand, her Negrita pressed close to her breast. The rag doll was stained
black by the dust from the coal mine that killed her daddy. The child shifted her attention
to the others. Her Aunt Alicia averted her face. Her uncle stood with his arms crossed.
The sullen man met her gaze, then quickly glanced at the curtained window. Rosa looked
at her brother whose face was tight with worry.
“What about my sister?” José repeated.

2
Las Moras de San Juan
“She can’t come!” their uncle said. “We have no room! No room for you, either!”
His tone softened. “But we can make room for one. Only one,” he said, wiping the
lingering hope off the uplifted faces of his wife and the judge.
“I won’t go then. My sister and I are staying together.”
Mr. Armijo didn’t reply, but his manner suggested the boy’s decision was fine with
him. Rosa buried her face in her brother’s chest.
“What’s one more?” Alicia asked.
Mr. Armijo glared at his wife, then grimaced. “No!” he said. He stomped to the
door and slammed it shut behind him.
The judge sighed. Pointing to the door with his chin, he quietly told Alicia, “Thank
you for getting him to take the boy.” He motioned for her to follow into an adjoining
room whose thick adobe walls would keep their voices from the children. Closing the
door, he said, “I know how hard it is to be charitable these days. You already have a large
family. Díos will reward you for your kindness.”
“It’s only a small sacrifice. I’m sorry I couldn’t get him to take them both.” Alicia
paused, then asked, “What’s going to happen to Rosa?”
“I can’t find her father’s family. No one knows them. Are you sure you don’t
know any of his relatives?”
“Like I said before, I hardly knew Vidal. The only time I met him was when he
married my sister.” Alicia pinned back a strand of hair that had fallen loose. “They
moved around a lot. Followed the work. I never saw Leonor again.” She blanched.
“We, we wrote to each other, though. All she told me was that Vidal ran away from home
when he was just a boy. He has no family that I know of.”

3
Las Moras de San Juan
The judge walked to a large window that looked out onto the main street of Mora, the
seat of the county of the same name. The settlers of this rugged land abutting the Sangre
de Cristo Mountains of northern New Mexico named the area after the mulberries that
grew alongside the waterways. They called the fruit Las Moras de San Juan after the
apostle Jesus entrusted to care for his mother.
“I’ll find a home for the girl, but not here,” the judge said. “I’ve even asked the
ranchers who come to town if they’d take her.” The juez clasped his hands behind his
back. “It’ll be hard finding a suitable home for the child. One that’s willing to add to
their burden during these hard times, but I’ll do what I can. I’ll go to Vegas.” Las Vegas,
thirty miles southwest of Mora, was a bustling town of ten thousand.
Alicia nodded. “Is, is it true that Leonor killed herself because she got herself
pregnant from a married man?”
“That’s just gossip, señora. She took too many sleeping pills. Best leave it at that.”
The juez paused, then continued. “Your sister had no job. She was a widow with two
small children. Don’t judge her too harshly.”
The next day, the Armijos picked José up at school. They took him to their ranch
near Anton Chico. Two weeks later, Rosa was given to strangers.

The fat old woman gently tried to pry the rag doll from Rosa’s hands. The little girl
clutched her Negrita close, refusing to loosen her hold.
Gilberto held out a shiny new doll saying, “Do you want to trade?” Rosa stood mute,
her expression blank. The old man looked toward his sister and shrugged.
Dominguita tugged at the doll. Rosa pulled free and ran to the far end of the cluttered

4
Las Moras de San Juan
sala. She stood, her back against a wall, in the living quarters above a store.
“Qué muchachita!” Dominguita said, exasperation evident in her voice. The sight
of the filthy doll was an affront to her penchant for cleanliness.
“Why don’t you let her keep it?” her brother asked.
“But it’s so dirty.”
While the two talked, Rosa went in her pants.
“Oh, my!” Dominguita said when her fastidious nose recognized the offending odor.
While Dominguita kept muttering “Oh, my!” Gilberto’s gaze shifted back and forth
between the vacant-faced little girl and his hysterical sister. No one would … She, she
wouldn‘t do this unless she’s sick … or really hurting.
“Oh, my! Oh, my!”
“Hermanita, why don’t you go downstairs and get Rosa some clothes. I’ll see to
her.”
“Oh, my! Oh … oh, okay. Are you sure you’ll be all right?”
“No te preocupes, ‘manita. I can handle it.”
As Dominguita ambled down the stairs, Gilberto fetched a tub and filled it with
water. After filling a platón and setting it on a wood-burning stove to warm, he went to
Rosa. Getting down on his knees, he hugged her saying, “It’s all right. It’s all right.”
Rosa let the old man undress her.
Dominguita trudged back up the stairs just as Gilberto was rinsing the soap from
Rosa’s hair. The woman stood on the landing holding onto an armful of clothes.

She

waited awhile and watched as her brother bathed the dark-haired girl, then she walked to
the kitchen table and put the clothes on the tabletop. She sat in her rocking chair. When

5
Las Moras de San Juan
she set the rocker into motion, Gilberto asked Rosa if she wanted him to bathe her baby.
The child handed him her Negrita.
This antique brother and sister were long past the age when people married. They
had given up on the prospect of marriage, but they were intrigued by the juez’ plea to care
for an orphan. When the judge told them Rosa’s mother had killed herself, they pitied the
child. So after deliberating between themselves, they decided they wanted the chance to
experience parenthood, and they accepted the judge’s proposition.
Gilberto lifted Rosa from the tub, wrapped her in a towel, and carried the dripping
child to the rocking chair. Humming a redundant tune, Dominguita patted Rosa dry, then
toweled her hair. Following her brother’s example, she offered to dry the girl’s doll as
well. After dressing Rosa, she said, “My, my. Aren’t you pretty.”
“Lovely, just lovely,” Gilberto said, “but wouldn’t she look even prettier if you fixed
her hair?”
“Yes. Yes, you’re right, ‘manito.”
Dominguita went to her bedroom, returning with a comb, brush, and mirror.
Handing Rosa the mirror, she sat on the rocking chair and proceeded to comb Rosa’s hair,
pausing occasionally to comment on the girl’s beautiful ebony eyes, the weather, or
whatever struck her fancy. At first, Dominguita respectfully waited for a response from
the child, but when none came, she continued to talk to her as if she was carrying on a
conversation. “What would you like to eat, Rosa? … Costillas or Carne adovada? …
Costillas sounds good to me, too.

Que quieres, ‘manito?”

“Huh, what did you say?” Gilberto asked, caught off guard. If his sister hadn’t
turned to face him, he never would have known she was speaking to him.

6
Las Moras de San Juan
“Are costillas okay with you?”
“Yes. Yes, costillas are fine.” The bell hanging above the door downstairs jingled.
“I better see what they want.” Gilberto wove his way around the crowded furniture on his
way to the stairs. “Horita te miro, ‘manita … Rosa. Got to get back to work.”
“Bring back a spool of black thread,” Dominguita said. “I’d like to sew her doll
before the stuffing comes out.”
“Sure. Anything else?”
“No, that’s all.”
“Would you like some rock candy, Rosa?” Gilberto stood on the landing awaiting
an answer that didn’t come. Uneasy moments passed before he descended the stairs.

Rosa didn’t utter a word for months. She let drop the toys the eccentric couple
placed in her hands. She sometimes refused to eat, and as spring and summer passed, she
carried her Negrita everywhere. One day as the trees on the banks of the Gallinas River
dressed in their fall colors, Rosa angrily threw her Negrita down and kicked it across the
floor. She chased after her doll, and grunting, kicked it again.
Dominguita turned away from the cutting board where she was slicing vegetables for
the stew she was preparing. She went to see what Rosa was doing.
“Ugh!” Rosa’s vicious kick sent the rag doll sliding underneath the sofa.
“Rosa! That’s no way to treat your baby! What’s wrong, linda mía?”
Rosa’s face was red with anger, her dark eyes flashing.
“What’s the matter, Rosa?”

Dominguita shuffled toward the couch. Getting on

her hands and knees, the woman reached under the sofa, exposing her broad behind to the

7
Las Moras de San Juan
child. Retrieving the doll, she labored to get back on her feet. She brushed off Rosa’s
Negrita and offered it to her.
Rosa slapped the doll out of her hand and began screaming.
“Rosa! Rosa! What’s wrong?”
Rosa started running around the crowded room, knocking knickknacks off the table
tops. Dominguita hurried to stop her, but the child was too quick, darting her way
between the cramped furnishings like a minnow eluding a bigger fish. Hearing the
commotion overhead, Gilberto rushed up the stairs. When he got to the top, Rosa grabbed
a music box and smashed it on the floor.
Gilberto caught Rosa just as she was about to break one of the glass figurines his
sister had spent years collecting. He let her go when she bit his hand. Dominguita
grabbed Rosa before she could get away. Holding the little girl close, the woman
surveyed the wreckage. Rosa kicked and screamed, but Dominguita held her tight.
Shaking his head, Gilberto started to pick up and put back the thrown objects. After a
while, Rosa stopped her tantrum and began to cry.
“Why did you do this?” Dominguita said more to herself than to the child. The
woman’s eyes teemed with tears when she saw Gilberto pick up the broken music box, a
gift a novio had given to her. “Oh, well,” she said, lamenting the lost chance at marriage
more than the broken momento. She wiped her tears with the hem of her apron, then she
stroked the child’s head. “Everything will be all right.”

Later that evening, Gilberto read while Dominguita crocheted. Rosa yawned and got
off the floor where she was playing with the new doll Gilberto had given her. The old man

8
Las Moras de San Juan
had put her Negrita away when she didn’t seem to want it anymore. She accepted the new
doll without any show of emotion. Rosa walked to Dominguita and wormed her way onto
the woman’s lap, snuggling close to her ample bosom.
Dominguita dropped her crocheting to the floor and set the rocker into motion. She
hummed, then she smiled as a deeply satisfying feeling filled her heart. A few minutes
later, Rosa was asleep. After Gilberto put her to bed, brother and sister talked.
“I wonder what got into her,” Gilberto said.
“God knows what goes on in that little girl’s head. I can’t imagine what I’d do in
her place. I don’t know what’s worse, not being able to see her papá again because he’s
buried in some mine or finding her mamá’s body.” Dominguita picked her crocheting off
the floor. “And then her brother’s taken from her. Poor child.”
“And what about her doll? She never let that raggedy thing out of her sight, and
now she won’t even touch it.”
“Who knows?” Dominguita shook her head. “Sometimes I think we made a
mistake.”
“Things will get better.”
“When? Sometimes I doubt if things will ever get any better.”
“They will, ‘manita. We just have to give it some time.”
“Cuanto más?”

On a chilly morning, Gilberto put a sign out to indicate the store was closed. He
locked the door, then offered Rosa his hand and she took it. Dominguita accompanied
them, and they went west of the Plaza down Valencia Street one block until they stood in

9
Las Moras de San Juan
front of Our Lady of Sorrows. Rosa looked at the red sandstone walls of the church, its
twin bell towers rising higher than its steep pitched roof, the rock taken from a quarry less
than a mile from where her brother now lived.
As Rosa mounted the steps to the church, she studied the arched windows on either
side of the doors and on the towers. After lashing out at her parents for dying, the anger
that welled up subsided enough so she could focus on her surroundings. As she dwelt less
on what she had lost, she noticed what she had overlooked, the random pattern of how the
building’s blocks were laid, the variety of their pecked surfaces. She squeezed Gilberto’s
hand, then shyly looked away when he glanced down at her.
After they entered the church, Dominguita trudged toward the altar where she would
place the embroidered altar cloth she had laundered and pressed. Gilberto proceeded for
the closet behind the sacristy where the brooms were kept. Rosa climbed the stairs at the
rear of the church, so she could examine the huge pipe organ in the loft.
While Dominguita and Gilberto cleaned and swept, Rosa stood at the console and
pressed down on the keys of the organ. No notes escaped because no assistant pumped air
into the reservoir. On Sundays, the organist made strange and lovely music by directing
the pumped air to the wind chest and into the pipes. Rosa fingered the keyboards and
tinkered with the draw knobs and tabs. She sat on the bench and stretched a foot to touch
the long pedal board.
When the organ no longer entertained her, she descended the stairs. Rosa had grown
familiar with the church just as she had gotten used to the curious couple who cared for her.
She came here often. She came when they cleaned and when they worshiped, and she
accompanied Dominguita when the woman wanted to pray. When Rosa got tired, she

10
Las Moras de San Juan
made herself at home and lay on a pew and slept. Likewise, the parishioners no longer
called her muda like the mutes who visited peoples’ homes at Christmastime; bogeymen
dancing and leaping grotesquely with bags over their heads, scaring kids by soundlessly
lunging at them, much to the delight of their parents.
Rosa sometimes wandered the aisles of the church. She visited the statues of saints
standing on their pedestals or hidden in their niches along the walls. When Rosa came
down the creaking steps, she walked to the plaster imitation of Michelangelo’s Pietà in the
nave just right of the altar. She saw the mother of God gazing down at the corpse of Jesus
sprawled on her lap. Rosa stared at her. Knowing death more profoundly than her peers,
she noticed the absence of pain on Mary’s face. Instead, Mary looked serene and buried in
thought. Precocious as she was, Rosa didn’t realize that Jesus’ mother had not yet felt the
pain of separation. She was still caring for her son. Rosa stayed there a long time, and
her gaze never broke until Gilberto put his hand on her shoulder.
“It’s time to go, mi‘ja.”
Rosa took his hand and they started for home. When they got to the store, Gilberto
unlocked the door and went inside. Rosa followed Dominguita to the chicken coop. She
watched her talk to the hens. Not the “clucking” sound made by the curling slap of the
tongue on the roof of the mouth behind the teeth. Not the “Here, chick-chick” that people
call when feeding chickens, but “Where’d you hide your egg, Sinferosa?” A grin snuck
onto Rosa’s lips. The smile burst onto the rest of her face when Dominguita wagged her
finger and warned the hold-out hen, “If you don’t give me an egg by Saturday, you’ll be
Sunday’s supper.”
Through with the day’s collection, Rosa fastened the gate to the coop and followed

11
Las Moras de San Juan
Dominguita once again.
“Remind me to have Gilberto cut some kindling. I’d like to bake some bread.”
The woman kept up the running chatter until they were well inside the store.

That afternoon, while washing dishes, Dominguita peered out the second floor
window and watched the leaves scud along the ground as the fall breeze rose and fell. She
saw how a few brittle leaves tenaciously clung to their branches, refusing to yield to the
coming winter. She wondered how anyone could willingly give up the precious gift of life
when her thoughts were interrupted.
“I’m hungry.”
Startled, Dominguita dropped the dish she was holding into the wash pan. “Did you
say something, linda mía?”
“I’m hungry.”
Wiping her hands dry on her apron, Dominguita asked, “What would you like to
eat?”
“Anything. I’m starving.”
Dominguita waddled to a curtained dispensa and came back with a jar she had taken
off a shelf. “Would you like some peaches and cream?” The old woman was barely able
to contain her elation. She wanted very much to go downstairs and tell her brother.
“I’d like that, thank you.”
“You’re such a polite child.” Dominguita pulled Rosa close and squeezed her tight,
then she walked across the room to get the cream.
A while later, Gilberto locked the store and trod up the steps. As he neared the top

12
Las Moras de San Juan
of the stairs, he heard Rosa and his sister absorbed in an animated conversation.
Surprised, he stopped to listen. Rosa was talking nonstop like she was unloading all she
had stored in her head during her silent time.
“Did you know hormigas hacen cuentitas?” she said, alluding to the tiny beads ants
made from shards of glass little girls left on their mounds. Before the woman could
respond, Rosa begged permission to go through Dominguita’s button box.
After catching his breath, and getting over the shock, Gilberto joined them.
“Would you like some peaches and cream, ‘manito?”
“Yes, please.”
Rosa started school the following month.

“Children, we have a new student today. I want you to make her feel welcome. Her
name is Rosa Velarde.”
Rosa stood next to Mrs. Montoya. The girl looked pretty in her white pinafore with
red piping. The red ribbon in her hair made her look like a brown-faced Shirley Temple,
but without the sausage curls.
“Hello,” Rosa murmured, recalling Gilberto’s instructions to be courteous towards
everyone. She glanced at the sea of faces which intimidated her, so she looked up at the
friendly face of her teacher.
Mrs. Montoya pointed to an empty desk, telling her that it would be hers. Uncertain
as to what was expected, Rosa remained standing alongside her teacher an awkward
moment too long before taking her seat.
The boy behind her snickered. “She’s just a baby. A daddy’s girl.”

13
Las Moras de San Juan
“What did you say, Narciso?”
“Nothing, señora.”
Rosa flushed and felt herself shrink a bit.
After giving the children their assignment, Mrs. Montoya came to Rosa. She wrote
Rosa’s name on top of a sheet of paper. As she drew each of the neat manuscript letters,
she named them. When she was done, she directed Rosa to copy her name until the page
was filled. When Rosa finished, she ran her fingers along the letters, whispering “Rosa
Velarde.” She closed her eyes, hoping her touch would bring back her father. Opening
her eyes, she warded off her disappointment and took the paper to her teacher.
“Good. Good. Very nice.” Mrs. Montoya got up from her desk, gave Rosa a quick
hug, and called for the youngest children to read.
Rosa opened her book. She struggled to keep up as her classmates read.
Instinctively, she knew the empty spaces between the crowded print separated each word.
She was relieved when the story ended before it was her turn to read. As one of the girls
collected the primers, Rosa refused to give hers back. She didn’t want to return it until she
had memorized the words she had learned.
“Señora, Rosa won’t give me the book,” Lupe said.
When her teacher took it from her, Rosa wanted to explain why she needed it, but she
couldn’t find the words. “Sí, señora,” she whispered when Mrs. Montoya told her the
book wasn’t hers to keep, but only to use. The children laughed and Rosa withdrew
further into herself.
During recess, the girls gathered together. Fingering Rosa’s dress, one of them said,
“It’s very pretty. Did your mamá make it?”

14
Las Moras de San Juan
“No, no she bought it for me,” Rosa said, feeling guilty insinuating she had a mother.
“Let’s play,” another girl said. Another opened a cloth pouch and spilled jacks onto
the ground. The girls knelt, forming a circle. Rosa remained standing.
“Aren’t you going to play?” Lupe asked.
“No, not today. I’ll just watch.” Rosa wanted to play, but her dress wasn’t suited
for the playground. She didn’t want to risk upsetting Dominguita by getting it dirty.
“Come on. It’s easy. I’ll show you,” Lupe insisted.
Unable to voice her predicament, Rosa shook her head and walked away, retreating
further into her shell. By the end of the day, she barely talked. By the end of the week,
she didn’t speak at all.
When Dominguita came to school, Mrs. Montoya blamed the children’s meanness for
Rosa’s reticence. “You don’t have to go to school if you don’t want to,” was all
Dominguita said before thanking Mrs. Montoya and taking Rosa home.

The snow began falling an hour before dawn and finished at ten in the morning. The
moisture wiped clean the air, deepening the blueness of the sky. The snow is thick and
heavy with water, enough to quench the earth for many days, Gilberto thought as he
shoveled it off the boardwalk, his ears red from the biting chill. When he was done, he
stood the shovel by the door and went inside. He removed his coat and hung it on a peg on
the wall next to the counter. After warming himself at a potbellied stove, he walked to the
base of the stairs and called for Rosa to join him.
“Qué quieres, Abuelo?” Rosa asked when she went to him. Abuelo or Abuela was
the mutually agreed upon name Rosa used to call her adoptive parents. Mother or father

15
Las Moras de San Juan
was deemed unacceptable and their given names too familiar.
“It’s time to get you a new coat. You’re growing like a weed and your old one fits
you too snug. Let’s try some on and see which one you like.” They walked to where the
coats hung and Gilberto selected a luxurious fur-lined one. “Here, try this on.”
“I don’t like it,” Rosa said before he could pull it off its hanger.
“All right. Why don’t you pick one.” Rosa rummaged through the rack. She
chose a coat much plainer than his selection. It fit perfectly. “Why this one?” he asked.
“It’s what the girls at school wear.”
“The other one’s much prettier, don’t you think?”
“I want to wear what my friends wear,” Rosa doggedly said. She didn’t tell him the
clothes los viejitos had her wear were too extravagant for everyday use.
Put off by her newfound conformity, Gilberto said, “You’re prettier and smarter than
they are. Would you like to be uglier and stupider than them?”
“Yes.”
Irked, Gilberto snapped, “God made us different, so we wouldn’t be like each other.”
“I don’t like God! He took my parents! Why did he do that?”
It took a while for Gilberto to respond. “I’m sorry, mi‘ja. God had his own son
nailed to a tree. His son told us we had to bear our crosses if we wanted to be with Him in
heaven. I don’t know why God does such things or why He made your burden so heavy.”
Rosa paused, trying mightily to understand. “Are my mamá and papá in heaven?”
“Did they love each other? Did they love you?”
“Yes.”
“Then they’re with God. He expects us to make our own way in the world. Only

16
Las Moras de San Juan
He knows when He’ll take us.” Gilberto cupped the back of Rosa’s head and gently
brought her close to him. “But my ‘manita and I will be with you until we die if you let
us.”
Rosa wrapped her arms around his waist and wept. Her sobs gave way to a keening
wail, which eventually succumbed to soft whimpers. The old man patiently stood until
she could cry no more.
Before the last snowfall, Rosa returned to school. She played with the children and
answered all her teacher’s questions. She became an adept student and pleaded to go to
school even when she was sick.

When Rosa was twelve years old, she bounded up the stairs two at a time. “I’m
home,” she announced as she flew off the top step. Dominguita and Gilberto were sitting
at the table talking to a young man in an ill-fitting suit. He turned to look at her. Rosa
instantly recognized her brother. Blubbering, she ran to him. They collided as he got out
of his chair. Rosa and José clung to each other, and when their tears were spent, they
began to get reacquainted with the awkwardness of strangers.
“You … you’ve grown,” José said. “How … How’ve you been?”
“Let’s give them some privacy,” Gilberto told Dominguita as he wiped his own tears.
The viejitos started for the stairs.
“Please stay. I want you to stay,” Rosa said. Turning to José, she said, “You must
be hungry. I’ll fix something to eat.”
Dominguita, now humpbacked by osteoporosis, joined Rosa at the stove. Gilberto,
hands gnarled by arthritis, filled the wood box. During supper, José told them he wasn’t

17
Las Moras de San Juan
returning to his tíos.
“Why not?” Gilberto asked.
“My uncle never wanted me. My tía, she … she was always kind, but … Anyway,
it was time for me to leave.”
“Where will you go?” Dominguita asked.
“Wherever I find work.”
“You’re not going anywhere. We have lots of catching up to do. You’re staying
here,” Rosa insisted. “Isn’t that right,” she said, looking toward her abuelos.
“You can stay as long as you like,” Dominguita said. Gilberto agreed.
“All right,” José said. “I’ll visit a spell.”
Jobs were scarce and José found no permanent work, so between odd jobs, he helped
in the store. He repaired what Gilberto could no longer fix. He cleaned what needed
cleaning and painted what needed painting. He took his turn at the counter. He stocked
shelves, swept, whatever needed doing. José took to calling los viejitos Abuelo y Abuela,
and the days without work turned to weeks, the weeks to months, and soon no mention was
made of finding a job. He took to managing the store, and by God’s abiding grace, the
orphans took good care of the parents who had no children of their own.


