Regular teachers generally ignore substitutes — kind of a caste thing, almost.
Lord knows we all need to feel more important than somebody. So even though
several folks sat around the teachersʼ lounge during “B” lunch period that day, nobody
paid much attention to Chad Kineski. And that suited Chad just fine. He was paying
very close attention to a fellow substitute.
Chadʼs attentions at the moment focused on Sheryl Drott, a tall, almost heavy
woman of perhaps 35 or 40. Sherylʼs red hair shone lush and wild against the violet
and green print design of her full skirt and her bulky yellow sweater. At least a dozen
silver gypsy bracelets jangled on her wrists. A slight gap between her two front teeth
appeared whenever she flashed her big, wide smile. She smiled as Chad rolled up
the sleeves of his black rayon shirt, drew his chair just a bit closer and said, “Regular
teachers here donʼt say much to subs, do they?”
“Oh, are you subbing too?” Sheryl turned slightly in her chair, placing her left
elbow on her left knee just so, with her hand palm-up. She enunciated as carefully as
she sat. If teachers had a fashion magazine, Sherylʼs studied propriety would have
made her a cover girl. “I saw you in the office this morning when I signed in,” she said.
“I was dealing with so many things, though… It's my first assignment here in Seattle.”
“Takes a while to learn the system, and what they tell you downtown doesnʼt help
much.” Chad reached for the quart carton of orange juice on the coffee table — his
lunch. “Whereʼre you from?” He took a long drink directly from the carton.
“Denver. And you?”

schooldogs

“Midwest, mostly…” Through the window behind Sheryl, Chad noticed a solitary
crow sitting atop the flagpole, and three big dogs chasing each other around the front
yard of the house across the street. “Iʼve been subbing since early last spring. I held
out for a regular teaching job as long as I could.” He didnʼt mention the child support
judgement that had forced him to take the first work he could get.
“I know how you feel. When I decided to move, subbing was the farthest thing
from my mind.” Just for an instant, Sherylʼs gaze softened and lowered. Then she
looked sharply at Chad. “The way theyʼre always screaming for teachers, seems like
itʼd be easier to get a regular position.”
Chad sensed her bewilderment, her confusion — feelings familiar to him since the
divorce. Back home, he had felt excluded, rejected. Couples avoided him. Even his
old friends seemed to distance themselves. He couldnʼt be sure what he felt was real,
how much was his imagination. He left to get away more than to be somewhere else.
His gaze caught several boys and girls scuffling halfheartedly in the schoolyard,
just outside the window of the teacherʼs lounge. He missed the familiarity that allowed
such nonchalant contact. “Folks are wary of strangers these days, especially in
schools. Ya see in the news all the time about teachers caught messing around with
the kids. Crazy, weird stuff, ya know?”
“Yes, and itʼs too bad, not only because of work. I miss the old days when people
were open to one another.” She gazed into the space between them and smiled a
small, somber-eyed smile. “So we have to substitute, at least to start…” She set the
drink down and straightened her back. “But the independence is great.”

schooldogs

The way she said independence made Chad wonder momentarily whether she
might be talking about her personal life as well as her teaching. She had the soft look
of home life, but the barely-concealed uncertainty of a woman newly on her own. He
let it pass.
After a pause she added, “I think theyʼll eventually offer me a contract.”
Chad observed idly as one of the boys outside the window — a thin, sharp-faced
blond kid beginning adolescence — showed more aggression than the others,
pushing them around a little. A dark-haired girl at the edge of the group eyed the kid.
Chadʼs glance darted from the kids to the dogs across the street, then back to
Sheryl. “Wonʼt you miss the freedom of moving around, a different school every day?”
“I taught in the same school in Denver for…” Sheryl glanced at the dogs, then
back to Chad. “A long time. But... freedom at the cost of being an outsider?”
The boys tossed a few rocks at the crow on the flagpole, but the crow sat tight.
“Once ya get used to subbing itʼs not bad work. When ya leave work for the day,
your responsibility ends. No extra stuff to take home.” Chad couldnʼt keep his eyes off
the cavorting dogs. “So how ya doinʼ today? Classes OK?”
“Oh, everythingʼs going fine.” She took another bite from her sandwich, and a bite
off her carrot. Her eyes followed Chadʼs gaze out the window as she chewed. The
dogs were having a time, chasing one another in the yard across the street. One was
mostly black, part Lab. Another looked to be Irish Setter, and the third yellow and
white, with a bandana around his neck. All three were pretty good size, the Setter
female. “What subjects do you teach?”

schooldogs

“My certificateʼs for social science.” Chad noticed the blond kid lighting a cigarette
right there on the school grounds. “But Iʼm in for an English teacher today.” He sipped
more orange juice. The yellow dog and the setter were romping pretty intensely, and
the Lab moseyed off. “Iʼve got ninth graders. Way too old for their age.”
The crow kept an eye on the kids below, but seemed to be mainly watching the
dogs, just like Chad and Sheryl. It fidgeted some, but stayed on the flagpole.
“I usually have all grades. I teach music.” The yellow mutt tried to mount the
setter, but she wanted to play some more. Sheryl looked away from the dogs, directly
at Chad. “Voice, actually.” Then she glanced back as the yellow got himself pretty
well mounted on the setter. “Iʼve got girlsʼ choir, boysʼ choir, chorale singing, folk
singing and a study hall.”
The crow was making raucous calls and jumping up and down without actually
lifting its feet from the flagpole, the way crows do. Sheryl absently took another bite
from her sandwich, another from her carrot. The boys passed the cigarette around,
then the blond kid offered it to the dark-haired girl. They all watched the dogs, too.
At first the dark-haired girl refused the smoke, then he cajoled her, so she took a
drag. She coughed several times, then looked at the blond kid as though for approval.
He took it back from her, dragged deeply and spat on the ground.
Chad sipped more juice. He noticed the hot blush on Sherylʼs neck and face. He
was feeling a little flushed, too. “That setterʼs a really pretty dog, yʼknow?” The yellow
dog was humping into thin air, unable to connect.
Sheryl tore her gaze away from the dogs to the kids, and pretended not to hear.
Then she flashed that slightly gap-toothed smile again. “Itʼs true. Sheʼs pretty.” Sheryl
looked back at the dogs, giving up the pretense of non-interest. “I love dogs.”

schooldogs

The yellow one finally found the spot and got hooked up, and the two began
working slow and easy, the setter pushing back and licking the yellow muttʼs shoulder.
The crow watched quietly, shifting around but not leaving the flagpole. The kids
watched and passed the cigarette. The dark-haired girl stood next to the blond kid.
The bell rang, signalling five minutes to the end of “B” lunch. Regular teachers
who hadnʼt already left began filing out the door, into the hall. Chad and Sheryl stared
at the dogs. Chadʼs trousers were binding him a bit, so he stood up and leaned on the
windowsill. He reached for Sherylʼs hand and helped her up out of the chair, and the
two of them stood at the window. The dogs were going to it. Instead of letting go when
Sheryl stood up, Chad squeezed her hand. “Jeez, those dogs… So free.”
Sheryl made no move to free her hand. “Do you have a dog?”
The yellow dogʼs front legs hugged the setterʼs deep chest. Both dogs were
panting. The teachersʼ lounge was empty except for Chad and Sheryl. “Nah. I live in
an apartment.” Chad answered. “How about you?”
“Same deal. And my place doesnʼt allow pets either. A little lonely sometimes.”
His arm slid around her waist, then he realized he was gently rubbing her belly.
She looked sideways at him. “Should we be doing this?” The setterʼs hind legs
were planted firmly apart, and the yellow dog was humping slow and hard until it
looked as though heʼd break his back. “I mean, I donʼt even know you.”
Instead of answering, Chad nuzzled her neck.
“We could get in trouble…” She leaned against him.
The crow was raising hell again. The dogs stopped moving and stood still.
They were alone in the lounge. Chad reached under Sherylʼs skirt and massaged
the damp place in her underwear. “Letʼs go in the rest room while nobodyʼs here.”

schooldogs

“Mmmm.” As they turned toward the rest room, Chad noticed that the blond kid
was staring through the window directly at him, grinning like a wolf. The others were
still watching the dogs.
In the tight little bathroom, Chad locked the door while Sheryl put her briefs into
her purse and perched on the edge of the sink. “You have to use a condom.”
“I donʼt have one. I mean, I usually donʼt, ah…”
“Well please donʼt think I do this kind of thing. I mean I never have.” She reached
into her purse. “But here. I have one.”
It was quick and hot.
“Iʼm supposed to already be on duty.” Chad stuffed his shirt into his trousers and
hastily brushed back his hair.
Sheryl was cleaning herself, giving no sign she heard.
“Will I see you again?” He fumbled with the lock. “Can I call?”
“I need to think about it. This isnʼt the kind of thing.…”
“Me neither.” His hand gripped the doorknob. “But please, we should…”
“Maybe Iʼll call you. Maybe weʼll…” She shrugged, then turned away to pull up
her underwear. “Go on, please.”
He turned the doorknob carefully, whispering back over his shoulder, “Just stay
put for a moment or two, then leave. Nobodyʼll notice.” When he stepped out of the
rest room, into the lounge, he couldnʼt resist glancing down at his trousers. The
wetness he felt wasnʼt visible on the outside.
Several women and a man sat by the coffee table, talking and laughing. They
paid him no attention at all. Chad hurried down the hall, late.

schooldogs

Back in the classroom, the kids were getting loud. Chad walked in, his knees still
a bit unsteady. The room only quieted a little. He clapped his hands, then raised them
in the air. Gradually the noise subsided enough for him to be heard.
“Iʼm Mr. Kineski, your substitute.” Chad noticed the handsome blond kid from the
group that had been loitering outside the lounge window. The kid had his desk out of
line, close to that same dark-haired girl. She worked intently on her papers.
A rustle of voices and noise from the class told him that heʼd better get something
going while he had their attention. The kid kept talking to the girl, but she ignored him.
Chad tried to read the seating chart, but his eyes wouldnʼt focus just right. He
cleared his throat. “Mrs. Johnson, your regular teacher, left the seating chart with me,
so if youʼre not in your regular seat, youʼd better get there or youʼre absent.”
A few kids changed seats. “Mr. Substitute, can we have free study today?”
“No. You all have your assignments, according to what Mrs. Johnson left me. If,
ah… if anybody needs help, raise your hand. Otherwise, quiet.” He eased over to the
blond kidʼs desk and bent over. “I think youʼre out of your seat, son. You need to get
where youʼre supposed to be and leave your friend, here, alone. Sheʼs trying to work.”
The kid replied quiet and mean, “I saw, and Iʼll tell. You better leave me alone,
Mister peachfingers.” He gave Chad a grotesquely sweet smile.
For the next forty minutes, Chad watched the kid work on the girl. She welcomed
it at first, then when he went farther and farther she tried to ignore him and study. He
kept at it. Chad knew he should stop the kid, but it just might start trouble. She
brushed the klidʼs hands away from her a few times, but when the bell rang, they left
together. Chad wondered what he had just allowed to happen.

schooldogs

The next class came, and Chad handled it all right. He began feeling pretty smug.
His last period was open, for planning. He headed for the lounge, hoping Sheryl
would be there. She wasnʼt.
Nobody paid him any attention. Outside the window, drizzle filled the air. No kids,
no dogs, not even the damn crow, just grey. He glanced around, then stared,
unfocused. The dark-haired girl — sheʼd seemed so vulnerable.
After too long, the bell rang and school was out. Outside in the parking lot, he
thought he glimpsed Sheryl leaving in an older car. In such a big system, they might
never again be in the same school on the same day. Had she mentioned her last
name? Maybe it would come to him later. Maybe heʼd call. Near his car a crow
cawed, flying off as he approached. He climbed inside and drove away.
~~ # ~~


