Joe Robinson hated water because he could not run on it. He could not walk on it either,
though he was treated like a god. Joe saved Marysville, a town whose only respite came
in the form of snow. He marveled how Marysville wore snow like a mask, concealing its
misery.
Like any 1930’s town, Marysville nearly died. Its appendages atrophied with the
national demise. Forestry and fishing grew anemic. Ebey Slough, forming the southern
border, was pocked with rotting docks and decaying trawlers snared by their own
abandoned nets. Adjacent lumber mills fell prey to decomposing kelp and invertebrates
along the shore. Acres of fertile fields became unintentional compost mixed with failure.
Marysville was ready to be euthanized.
Joe’s ascension began in 1936. He was brilliant, born with twelve fingers and
thirteen toes, an unbelievable pianist. The entire world was in his imagination, where his
mind traveled like Marco Polo. Rather than for his brains, however, Joe was idolized for
something simpler, his feet. He was a violent runner with malicious intent, charging his
six-foot two-inch frame violently into any defender who could not get out of his way
Every morning Joe stepped upon the shore of Tulare Beach on the northern edge of the
Tulalip Indian Reservation, inhaled decaying barnacles, and ran south to Spee-Bi-Dah
then north to McKee’s, four miles in sum. He ran with teenage thoughts of Camille
Odyssey whom he met the previous spring in 3rd period chemistry oozing pheromones.
Upon one morning run, Joe saw a UFO, unearthly in its swiftness. In the distance
Joe saw Chester George. Chester loped with the grace and beauty of the Pacific
Northwest towards Spee-Bi-Dah, a newly developed Puget Sound beachfront that was
once Tulalip’s traditional salmon drying grounds, while Joe was charging like a predator

When God Made Snow

2

south directly at him. But Joe betrayed his posture and waved. Chester appeared to nod.
Ten minutes later, each had reversed his course, meeting along the shore.
“You’re a swift runner,” Joe said. He was measured, struggling not to sound out
of breath.
“Yeah, you know, I could be famous, enit, like Jim Thorpe.” Chester too kept an
even face, no signs of weariness. He was stoic, fifteen.
“Enit? What’s enit?”
Chester reshaped his face. “If I told you, you might steal it, you know?” Then,
Chester’s face swelled one inch in every direction. Joe imagined it was a smile.
“Hmmm, yeah maybe,” Joe said as he looked at black birds dotting the pale sky.
“So, what are those, ravens or crows?”
Chester had no idea. He almost looked at Joe and said without answering, “Look
at their beaks.” Joe shrugged nonchalantly, spoke of the upcoming school year, their first
at the high school in the center of town, and offered to shake Chester’s hand. Chester
wondered if it held betrayal, but in a flash he took Joe’s hand. Then, just as quickly,
Chester ran home, desperate to outrun the truth.
One Sunday morning when half the tribe was inside Saint Anne’s Mission
admiring Jesus’s hair, Chester George ran backwards seven times around the ashes and
charcoal of the tribal longhouse trying to resurrect its walls. Instead, his grandfather
appeared.
“Hey, Chester! I used to have long black hair you know?” Tiatmus said, closing
his eyes to see. “Did you know Samson was an Indian yeah? We were all little Samsons
until they cut our hair, stole our strength and our shoes, made us wear government issued

When God Made Snow

3

boots, stiff trousers so we couldn’t run. They covered our heads with hats big enough to
sleep in, causing us all at once to forget our Lushootseed names you know?”
Actually, Tiatmus descended from Patkanim, an Allied Tribes Chief who signed
the historic Point Elliot Treaty of 1855. He led the Indian warriors who fought for the
whites. It was clear to Patkanim that the whites would ultimately take the land by force,
thus rendering his actions as sacrificial to his reputation while achieving sustainable
peace for his people. The tribes were sent to reservations, including Tulalip, which
embraces Tulalip Bay, sloughs, creeks, and rivers along a vastly wooded land extending
north through junkyards and broken promises. Many tribal land owners were conned into
selling their beachfronts, including Tulare, Mission, and Spee-Bi-Dah, leaving a land
divided by money, roads, streams, and family history.
After Chester’s parents died together, he lived on the Rez with his grandfather,
Tiatmus, in a two-room wooden shanty with no insulation or hot water and a leaky faucet
of collected rainwater that only ceased dripping in the freezing winters. The grey cedar
home was a few hundred yards from Saint Anne’s Mission, a church that housed the US
government’s Tulalip Indian School. Tiatmus attended as a child, as did Chester’s
parents, aunts, uncles, and two older brothers. Chester and Tiatmus often walked together
to the longhouse that had been burnt to the ground.
“This is where it happened,” Tiatmus would always say to anyone who would
listen. Only Chester did, which is why he became the first tribal member to integrate
Marysville’s public high school. The previous spring the school board had announced
their remarkable “inclusion,” with the clause: INDIANS MUST PAY $200 TUITION PER
YEAR.

“This is our Wounded Knee,” Tiatmus continued. “We were gathered for our first

When God Made Snow

4

time as a whole tribe since the Mission was erected, maybe 50 years after, maybe 2,000.
We sang for the salmon and qalqalexic, that’s how we say killer whale, yeah? Anyway,
your mother and father were guests of honor as they gathered some of the joy that had
been stolen a century ago. But the white men wanted to steal it back. Your mother and
father were warriors and refused. So, the U.S. Government, sent here to protect us from
ourselves, burned the long house into the ashes before you, ashes of your mother and
father that give life to these two yellow cedars that we weed around every Sunday. That
is our church.”
Chester George often wondered if his grandfather came from the sky the same
way as snow, for Tiatmus had pure white hair and only one name. Chester was only three
the first time he had this thought, but his mind was already full of centuries past. Tiatmus
frequently filled Chester’s mind as the tribal storyteller, keeper of truths and lessons to be
shared upon asking. So, one day Chester asked, “Where does snow come from?” Tiatmus
looked directly through Chester into his own mind to find the truth.
“Mother Nature and Father Time had many arguments, and both were always
right, though sometimes, nature was bypassed, and time occasionally bent. But, one day
they agreed: man was in too much of a hurry, yeah? So, Mother Nature grew very cold
and created snow while Father Time showed her how to sprinkle it in order to slow
people down, sometimes to the point of forgetting time all together.” He looked at
Chester and added, “You know, time may be forgotten, but he won’t stand still. That’s
his nature.”
Chester looked at his grandpa for several seconds then asked, “Yeah, but where
does it come from?”

When God Made Snow

5

About a week before school and football season began, Joe and Chester met along
another run about 200 yards below the ashes of the longhouse. Chester looked hard at
Joe, who seemed entranced by two cedar trees. “Those are my parents,” Chester said.
Startled, Joe’s imagination was reduced to a mumbling, “what?”
“Follow me.” Chester invited his alien friend into the sacred. “My grandpa tells us
the white man burned down our longhouse. Maybe they did, yeah?” Chester closed his
eyes like his grandfather, “But what really happened is this: My mom and dad wanted to
be ‘traditional.’ So, they planned a raid on Whiskey Ridge. They managed two kegs and
three cases of moonshine. When they arrived that night, my grandpa was telling a story
alongside the fire in the center of the longhouse. My father interrupted in triumph,
inspiring his cousin, my uncle Louie Louie, to slap him with congratulations on the back,
causing my dad to trip and fall face first with the moonshine in the middle of the fire. My
mom rushed to help and fell on my dad. My parents became the largest bonfire in tribal
history. They fertilize those trees. That is my truth.”
Joe looked down, speechless. A wide smile appeared on Chester’s face as he
punched Joe in the arm. “Did you believe that?” Chester asked. “Man, white people will
believe anything, enit?” He laughed, punched Joe again, and ran to the shoreline.
That night Joe stood at the water’s edge watching the phosphorescence shimmer
and dance. He imagined it like mating. He imagined Camille Odyssey and wondered, is
she real or just intuition?
That night truth crept towards Chester George. He burned driftwood by the shore
and inhaled his ancestors. At low tide Tulalip Bay releases the stench of Puget Sound’s

When God Made Snow

6

soul. Its soul lingers in the night where it fertilizes ideas. That night Chester’s ideas were
ignited, and he imagined the entire Pacific Ocean was filled with gasoline.

*
No one questioned the deity of Thor Karlsson. His rule was absolute. He accepted
nothing but sacrifice, and no sacrifice could appease him. For ten years the Marysville
Tomahawks led the Snohomish County small schools in athletic futility. But, in 1934,
Thor Karlsson was hired to eradicate the losing culture, if not the racism particular to the
northwest. The Tomahawks were red and white, symbolizing a politically convenient
ideal of Caucasian-Native symmetry and unity. At first, Joe idolized Coach Karlsson.
However, Coach Karlsson’s veins coursed with hubris, refusing to play or even speak to
Chester George, placing young Joe Robinson in a moral predicament. Karlsson ignored
reason. His attitude made Chester appear small on the outside. That’s how Karlsson saw
him, a shrunken boy wearing the skin of defeat, a born loser. So, Chester was just a
practice tool, a blocking dummy and bag holder. Karlsson never appreciated that Chester
George shared something in common with Joe Robinson. He could run.
Coach Karlsson was imposing, both in physicality and will. He was anchored by
two bulging calves and capped by a monolithic head, coarse white hair like a polar bear
and ghostly white skin except his cherry blossom pink face, creased by white wrinkles of
disdain and inner chaos. He had an aggravating tick, always finishing everything he said
with a squinting emotionless smile. At his core, Karlsson was a coward, overlooked, of
course, by winning football games. Winning cures ills and produces hope. In Joe
Robinson hope would not disappoint as he gave life to a community’s expectations and
set them free to live as long as anyone cared about records and fantasy.

When God Made Snow

7
*

Football was an extension of Joe’s nerve endings. In the thirty-year history of
Marysville’s varsity squad no freshman had ever started for the Tomahawks, except
during The Great War. 1936, however, offered promises like those of the New Deal. On
the first day of tryouts, Coach Karlsson unconsciously verbalized his thoughts, “Good
God, he runs like a horse!” In 1937, Joe became the first sophomore to be named team
captain. His teammates dubbed him War Admiral. The Everett Herald noted, “He is at
once graceful and urgent like a violin… he runs as though he’s being chased by himself.”
*

Genetics perplexed Joe Robinson. Somehow, though, his glacial coach seemed to
believe men have some sort of say in their racial make-up, which is a basis for pride and
social order. So, Joe’s explosively fast yet silent friend and teammate, Chester George,
was relegated to the practice squad as the Tomahawks marched towards the state’s alltime consecutive games played without a loss record, a record to be sure that was as
important to Thor Karlsson as the white of his skin.
By 1938, the eyes of Washington Prep Athletics were upon Marysville, a mere
five miles north of Everett, the National Champion of prep football in 1920. They beat
the Tomahawks 98-0 that year. It was the last time any Everett team stooped to play
lowly Marysville. During the 1920’s Everett had run off a record 41 consecutive games
unbeaten, annihilating the former record by 17 games. Marysville completed the decade
without a winning season. Entering the 1938 campaign, Marysville’s win-streak stood at
32.

When God Made Snow

8

Co-captain Dale Holmes, a gritty lead blocker, joined Joe in the backfield. They
led the nation as the leading scoring duo, though it was akin to calling Hank and Tommy
Aaron the greatest homerun hitting brothers of all-time. As the Tomahawks’ victories
mounted, Joe continued a streak of his own which began in the third game of his
freshman season, most consecutive games rushing for over 100 yards, fifteen entering his
junior season.
Following each victory, Camille and Chester met Joe at The Barrel for celebratory
hamburgers and ice cream. Joe carried their entire order in one hand. Some stared at the
threesome, a few older folks protested by leaving and calling Chester an apple, red on the
outside, white on the inside. Others didn’t seem much to care, just happy with another
Marysville win. “Great game, Joe! You sure showed them today Joe!” the young and old
said, while the owner of The Barrel, Hilton James, savored the profits attached to this
young boy with the incredible feet.
The majority of the 1938 season lacked any real competitive drama as the
Tomahawks peeled off seven consecutive victories, with an average winning margin of
an astonishing 38 points. Week eight, however, proved to possess all the drama the
community of Marysville could stomach. Their collective chip on their shoulder was the
size of their pretentious neighbor directly to the south, Everett, king of the state’s large
schools. Everett knew their number one squad would never be allowed to play the
infinitesimally smaller Tomahawks, but their legendary coach, Enoch Bagshaw, who
went on to coach the University of Washington, proposed the previous spring that their
#2 squad add Marysville to the schedule. Everett’s #2’s were much like UCLA
basketball’s freshman squads of the 1960’s, not allowed to play varsity games, UCLA’s

When God Made Snow

9

freshmen routinely gave their varsity great trouble, often defeating the undefeatable in
intra-squad games. Everett’s #2’s carried the same audacity as their #1’s. Winning was
their right.
Joe Robinson was stuck by his growing unrest with his coach’s refusal to allow
Chester George to integrate the line-up but even more so by his own lack of courage to
confront the man. Joe’s unrest underscored the tension of Saturday afternoon’s game set
at Trojan Field on the campus of Everett Junior College.
The game, agreed upon under an unseasonably warm May sunshine, was set for
November 11 at 3:00 in the afternoon. It was frigid, the kind of day that freezes every
nose hair into a prickly needle. Marysville’s quarterback, Pink Ericksson had the flu. And
worse yet, lights were installed the previous season, allowing Everett’s #1’s to play on
Friday nights while the Trojans of EJC played Saturday mornings at 10:00. This game
would be the third on the same grass field in less than twenty-four hours. The eight
previous quarters, not to mention the dozen other games earlier in the season, created a
quagmire flash-frozen by an invasive Alaskan air.
Everett did not welcome invaders, not from Alaska and especially not from
Marysville. Wave upon wave of Marysvillains crossed the Snohomish River by foot,
jalopy, and horseback, intent on arriving during the EJC game to get a seat, but the stands
were already cram-packed by half of Everett, not so much to keep warm, but to ensure all
visitors would have to stand at field level for the entire high school game. A contingent of
Tulalip fans arrived in a motorcade of new cars, bought from Marysville’s lone
automotive entrepreneur, Roy Patson. It was a rare occasions to see a tribal member’s car
off the Rez, a difficult lesson for Mr. Patson. As a sovereign nation, a city businessman

When God Made Snow

10

was not allowed to repossess property once on the Reservation. The tribe had discovered
that a simple down payment was all that was necessary to claim a new car, a blessed
irony of loopholes. Defaults on payments could not be claimed, giving rise to a car-ofthe-month club then ultimately hundreds of abandoned and rotting car lots spread
throughout every tribal back yard.
The crowd became a singular living organism with individual parts. Roy Patson
saw it as five thousand potential customers. Mr. Nittle, a Junior High science teacher who
faked fainting spells during class in order to be resuscitated by adolescent girls, inserted
himself into a pocket of pretty high school girls, but he was too cold to have a seizure.
The first quarter proved costly to the Tomahawks as Dale Holmes caught his right
foot in a frozen rut on the Marysville 20 yard-line near the Everett sidelines on a 28
Army Sweep. At the snap of his ankle, the collective Marysville/Everett OH! was eerily
stifled then accentuated by the collective murmur, what if that happens to Joe? Chester
naively stepped forward to volunteer his services, but he was invisible. As nature would
have it, Holmes instinctively grabbed for his foot before his body was down, unwittingly
and at the precise moment uncaringly fumbling the football, Marysville’s first turnover in
eight games, another record. Seagull defensive end Sonny Lambright scooped up the gift
and toted it into the end zone, 6-0 Everett. The extra point, however, was blocked by a
fully extended Joe Robinson, unconcerned by the career-ending ravines etched into
Trojan Field. If Chester George was encouraged, the wind chill made sure his face could
not expand.
The two offenses continued to sputter as a weakened Pink Ericksson had
difficulty receiving snaps while Bud Lofgren, his center, had half-frozen fingers and

When God Made Snow

11

could barely put pressure enough on the ball to hike it. I could play quarterback, Chester
George allowed himself to fantasize, but not out loud. 6-0 Everett half-time.
The second half began with what seemed to be the penultimate nail in the
Tomahawks’ coffin. Sammy Dyer, the freshman who would, the following spring, set the
county mark in the 100-yard dash, took the kick-off back 77 yards for another Seagull
touchdown. They attempted a two-point conversion, running a 49 wing toss behind their
6’ 3” 240 pound left tackle, Hyman Rucker. The path looked as wide as the Columbia
Gorge until Rucker caught a cleat on a frozen dirt clod, tripping atop 5’ 4” corner Jimmy
Wilkes, creating a stalwart obstacle which derailed Everett’s wing-back at the two yardline. Everett 12 Marysville 0.
The Everett stands thundered only briefly with excitement, not wanting to give
the impression that their imminent victory was ever in doubt. Marysville took little solace
in yet another moral victory, the moral being they would always be losers.
Still scoreless entering the fourth quarter, Pink was exhausted and dehydrated as
evidenced by the heaps of vomit frozen along the side-line. Marysville’s fans cheered as
loftily as they could to encourage their boys. Thor Karlsson paced pensively beneath the
anxiety of fleeting fame. But, if coach Karlsson did not understand people, he did
understand football, leading to the decision that solidified Joe Robinson’s reign as
Marysville’s Messiah. “Pink, go stand by your puke.” Karlsson moved Joe to quarterback
to begin the fourth and decisive quarter.
Joe Robinson had never taken a snap in his life, but he knew the playbook almost
as thoroughly as his coach. Plus, he understood people, leading the huddle with innate
infectious confidence. With just four and a half minutes remaining and the clock running,

When God Made Snow

12

Joe, who had just 67 yards rushing, broke through the middle on an improvisation of their
favorite play, 30 Army Trap. Instead of handing the ball to the fullback, Joe’s regular
position, then faking to and following the half-back, Joe faked to the halfback moving
right then ran left, following his pulling right guard, a play now well known as a bootleg,
37 yards untouched in front of the Everett sideline. Extra point good. Everett 12
Marysville 7.
The Marysville crowd began to divide like an amoeba, blending into the front two
rows of the bleachers to witness a modern miracle. The Everett fans were stunned into
silent compliance.
The vaunted Everett defense had been penetrated for only the second time of the
season, and Marysville was no longer shopping for moral victories. They needed to
recover an on-side kick with less than four minutes to play.
The on-side kick failed. Seagull ball on the 50 yard-line. The Tomahawks, the
entire town of Marysville, had two time-outs remaining. The Seagull’s strategy was no
great mystery: run, run, run, get a first down, take a knee, Seagull victory, forcing
Marysville to awaken from a dream but not before feeling the fully vicious and mortal
impact from the magnificent fall. The Tomahawks’ strategy was just as plain: a stop,
time-out, stop, time-out, stop, big punt return, an even bigger miracle.
In two minutes, Everett ran three plays straight up the middle. Marysville spent
their two time-outs and met the Seagull’s expectations equally, holding them to a mere
yard, just three feet in three plays, but the clock ticked and ticked. The seconds dripped
impossibly slowly on Everett’s sideline. The Seagulls were forced to punt. Fifty-three
yards away, Marysville’s sideline seemed an entirely different time zone, a different

When God Made Snow

13

dimension, where time and space shed earthly definition. The unseen seconds felt as
though they were melting like a bag of ice in a smelter, no time-outs, Joe Robinson
standing alone with an entire town on his own ten-yard line awaiting a ball that wouldn’t
just be handed to him. The pressure was immense, the type where clouds go to die.
Sometimes the wind has ideas of its own, arriving from the Arctic instead of
Hawaii. Sometimes the wind would steal a 13-ounce ball and remind you it was not
round but oblong and pointed, intent on corruption. The flight of the ball carried all
Marysville’s illusions, all its delusions, with no operating scoreboard for defense. It was
frozen. Time had to be kept by pocket watch on the field. How much time will be left
when I catch the ball, IF I catch the ball, get killed by the ball? Was Joe worried? Was
the town thinking for him? Would Thor Karlsson ever play an Indian?
At the moment Everett’s punter, Jackson Fleet, kicked the ball into a wind-aided
orbit around the world, fourteen days were compressed into 4.2 seconds. Alaska was
struck by an 8.3 earthquake. Japan overwhelmed Canton, Hankou, and Wuhon. France
and Germany worked out the details of a non-attack treaty as Europe’s Jews were
emasculated. Czechs were made German citizens, and Regan Heiner, Joe’s German dad,
was grateful he changed his last name to Robinson. A Dutch DC-3 crashed and burst into
flames in Schipol killing six. The Red Sox Jimmie Foxx was named MVP. Sea Biscuit
nosed War Admiral, and a Swiss doctor synthesized LSD. Father Coughlin spewed antisemitism over American radio while Mother Mary Francis Cabrini was beatified as the
first American saint. The Archbishop of Dubuque claimed Swing music was Satan’s
primrose path to hell, and Joe’s mom was elated to be a Protestant.

When God Made Snow

14

In Sweden, Pearl Buck received the Nobel Prize for Literature, while Orson
Welles convinced millions the Martians were on their way to end the good earth. But, no
one in Marysville cared because this punt return, this moment was the whole of existence.
1:37 remained in the game when Joe Robinson flawlessly fielded the expectedly
errant flight of the over-weighted football. Ninety-seven seconds. As much as Thor
Karlsson lived and breathed football, two-minute drills weren’t even a novelty in high
school football during the 1930’s. An impressive 24-yard punt return still left the
Tomahawks 66 yards shy of victory. Smoke stack steam arose from the two huddles,
forming cumulus clouds, drifting word balloons in a comic strip, but no one was
laughing. Throats were bound by the subterranean noose of tension and arctic wind-chill.
In just over a minute and twenty-five seconds, Marysville ran five plays for 41
yards, stopping the clock with three first downs. They were down to their final play. A
Hail Mary? Too cold. Maybe Joe could throw it, but he never had. Swede put Pink
Ericksson, nauseated and flimsy, back into the game; even the bitter cold could not
resurrect any meaningful muscular rigidity. They needed to score, but they didn’t have
perceptible time to think. Pink lined up under center but curiously took a step to his left,
just over the guard. The ball was snapped directly to Joe Robinson, another subtle
adjustment to their favorite play, 30 Army Trap. Joe took the low snap on the fly, hitting
the zero hole between the right butt-cheek of the center and inside the pulling guard who
delivered a decisive trap-block to Everett’s left D-Tackle. Joe instinctively cut back to the
right side knowing his own line and sensing the over-pursuit of a desperate linebacking
corps. Every step Joe took was masterful, never a false-step, always anticipating the
pursuit. One man to beat. A fifteen year-old, befuddled safety, who by accident found

When God Made Snow

15

himself as the last impediment, a hero or a goat, was caught staring into the Marysville
Messiah’s transfigured eyes, overwhelmed by the Joe’s majesty. Joe cut sharply to his
left, aided by a one-inch frozen ridge of sod, propelling him past the lurching safety who
waved his arms haplessly as though they were misshapen transplants. Marysville 13,
Everett 12. Time remaining, 0:00. Streak 40 games, no losses.
In the heart of jubilatory chaos, Camille Odyssey broke from the crowd and
nearly trampled Mr. Nittle, who had collapsed for real and no one cared. She joined a
mountain of fans and hoisted Joe high atop Trojan Field overlooking Port Garner Bay.
When Joe came down from the mountain, great multitudes followed. Joe was the only
one who saw Chester George fading away as if he were being erased.
Marysville celebrated. Kunhle’s sold out every last drop of Olympia beer. Across
the street, the Friendly Indian Tavern opened its doors and taps to the overflowing and
overly thirsty white folks willing to drink Rainier. Instead of flying fists, open hands
slapped backs. Red and white drank together and vomited on the corner of 3rd and State
together. The next morning, the town awoke reluctantly to the sound of church bells,
hangovers, and the Great Depression. Chester George woke up Indian.
*
“It’s BULLSHIT! I’ll quit, yeah?!” Chester yelled in the middle of The Barrel,
“F-”
“HEY, Chief Smoke!” the owner of The Barrel, Hilton James, yelled, “get your
swearin’ candy-apple asses out-”
“Fuck you!” Joe and Chester yelled in tandem. And like magic, the profit-driven
Mr. James disappeared. Then, Chester pushed Joe. “I don’t need your fuckin’ help!”

When God Made Snow

16

Joe looked on the verge of tears or eruption, a fine line between love and hate.
And just as he was about to reveal the magnitude of whichever earth changing emotion
he possessed“They’re crows.”
“What?” Chester and Joe looked at Camille then each other, confused.
“The black birds you see by the beach. They’re crows,” Camille said.
“How do you know?” the boys asked.
“They caw. Ravens croak.”
“Like a frog?” Chester asked.
“Do you believe that?” Joe asked. “Man, Indians will believe anything, enit?”
Chester’s smile nearly shattered his face. They were friends. That was their truth.
*

The following week Marysville hung 52 upon visiting Cashmere. Marysville won its
fifth consecutive Snohomish County Small Schools title. Joe Robinson had rushed for at
least 100 yards in twenty-four consecutive games. He stopped by his coach’s classroom
to thank him for the season while burdened by the hope Karlsson would play Chester
George next season.
Marysville had tied Everett’s state record, 41 games without a loss, propelling a
young team into the off-season with high expectations. But, Thor Karlsson had become
an impatient man at the precipice of the hallowed record. “Ties are like kissing your
sister,” he ranted. “I’ve taken a game with Ellensburg over Thanksgiving. They’re the
Kittitas County champs.”

When God Made Snow

17

Sometimes people don’t hear each other even when they are the only two in the
room, but this day Joe Robinson demanded to be heard. “Coach, you gotta play Chester.
He made every practice, never complained. He’s faster than-”
Coach Karlsson scoffed at Joe’s idealism, then lifted his eyes. “Listen. Your
friend is a born loser. I don’t want any part of losing. Now do what you’re best at, and
run along.” Joe was dumbstruck. And, although he was treated like a god, Joe Robinson
didn’t have the courage to be crucified.
*

It seemed all of Marysville had an aversion to play a meaningless game. Several
townsfolk and parents fruitlessly voiced their concerns about traveling over the
mountains of Steven’s Pass during a holiday. Traditionally, Marysville played rival
Monroe in the annual Snohomish County Small Schools Turkey Bowl, but that came to
an abrupt end in 1934, the year Marysville’s win streak began. That year both teams
entered the Turkey Bowl undefeated. The winner would be named County Champs, no
small reward in 1934. Misfortune, however, dealt the Bearcats’ team bus two flat tires
and a cracked axle on the outskirts of Snohomish. By the time the bus could be repaired,
the sun was long set. By rule the game was not rescheduled, the outcome a bitterly
disputed forfeit. Marysville was declared the winner and County Champions by a score of
2-0. Monroe refused scheduling the game ever since.
Karlsson’s team obediently loaded the bus in pursuit of a record they’d just as
soon set against a rival next season. Joe sat in the rear next to Chester both silently
praying, not having a clue what else to do. Every mile that passed along the scenic
highway fell upon Joe’s shoulders like an avalanche of despair. The tension was only

When God Made Snow

18

briefly interrupted as the bus passed through Monroe, where dozens of people awaited
with eggs and rotted vegetables. Karlsson winced and smiled.
Near Sultan a posted sign warned of impending snow, not early for the season but
unexpected just the same. Just a few more miles to Gold Bar and they were headlong
amid a blizzard. Karlsson’s malefic glare encouraged the bus driver to continue. “We’ll
be through the heavy stuff by Skykomish,” he said, “then over the pass, lunch in
Leavenworth, and all downhill to Ellensburg.” The tension in the center of Joe’s brain
squeezed away all thoughts except failure and disappointment. But, sometimes God
answers prayer.
As the bus neared Skykomish, a forest ranger stood, one hand up, in the center of
the snow-packed highway. “The highway is closed,” he said to the aging bus driver.
Coach Karlsson arose to protest, his face pink and raw like corned beef, but the ranger
didn’t recognize the god of high school football. “Sorry sir, but this bus’ll turn around in
the interest of safety and my authority.”
Karlsson placed his left hand firmly upon the bus driver’s shoulder and said, “You
will pull this bus over in Startup so I can place a call.”
The Ellensburg Superintendent’s phone rang four minutes before noon, the game
scheduled for two o’clock. A determined yet composed Thor Karlsson voiced his plea.
“Under the circumstances, would you please consider postponing the game until next
week or when the pass is re-opened?”
It made no difference to the superintendent, but he responded plainly enough,
“I’m sorry, but rules are rules.” The game was forfeit: Ellensburg 2; Marysville 0.
Ellensburg, Everett, and Monroe celebrated. Coach Karlsson’s granite facade crumbled

When God Made Snow

19

under the abstract weight of irony. He quit in shame. The streak was over, and as Chester
George left the bus, he asked Coach Karlsson, “So, you gonna kiss your sister?”
*

In 1939, practice fields across America broke into cold dewy sweats. The Tomahawks
won their sixth consecutive county championship, while Hitler blew up Europe. Chester
George started the season at half-back, replacing graduated Dale Holmes. Chester broke
his left leg in the first game and never played another down. He was the first Tulalip
tribal member to graduate public high school, his daughter, Cheryl, the second eighteen
years later. The Army found a use for Chester as he held the remnants of the Lushootseed
language. Three years after the War, Chester George was killed by a drunk driver on
Marine Drive. His spirit lived for several years atop a sign that read: Please Don’t Drink
and Drive—In Memory of Chester George.
In the spring of 1950, Joe Robinson, whose feet were blown off on Iwo Jima, was
invited to the dedication of Tulalip’s new longhouse. Two magnificent yellow cedars
guarded the entrance. Joe listened, as Tiatmus told of the legend of Chester George the
Native hero of Marysville football. Joe wasn’t the hero of this story. He didn’t have to be.
God he loved the snow.


