Most days we boys played war. It’s the one world of fantasy in
which a boy can get reliably lost – before the obsession with
sex sets in, anyway. World War II was popular. We were always
battling Nazis, storming the beaches, launching grenades, taking
and retaking Normandy. Every once in a while, it was Viet Nam
but the stink of ambivalence — was it even really a war? —
muddied the mission objectives. Everything worked better when it
was Good vs. Evil, black and white, or as in the case of today,
Blue vs. Gray. Yes, today it was the Civil War and the North was
winning, though not without taking heavy losses. We boys elbowcrawled along the ground to the cover of a low mound. We wore
the blue caps of the Northern infantry (left over from a recent
adult neighborhood costume party). We were vastly outnumbered,
but that was nothing new. The Confederate troops emerged from
the sunken road, covered in dust from head to foot, gray as
ghosts. Their courage reeked of desperation. Brandishing
revolvers and firing wildly as they came, they yelled their
crazy yells to wake the piled-up corpses. Suddenly, an explosion
rocked us as a caisson blew. The driver’s body flew high in the
air. Limbs and trunk and blood and guts and the shattered
fragments of the wagon rained down upon us and covered the

1

THE CAR
adjacent cornfield in wood and gore. Explosion noises erupted
from our lips and we threw dirt in the air to dramatize the
extent of the destruction. Thankfully, no one was hit by
shrapnel. It was a Gettysburg of a day and with our toy guns,
sticks and dirt clods we were fully immersed in the occult power
that battle holds over the souls of boys. It was a feeling that
the first person shooter games and paintball (not to mention the
reality check of time in the service) could never quite
recapture.
This was a July day in the days before the Warming and the air
was clean and cool feeling. Cotton candy clouds puffed happily
across the sky, like a Photoshopped backplate borrowed from some
old Renaissance painting. So it wasn’t too stifling-hot but we
were parched from the exertion. Captain Steve, a year older and
our acknowledged leader, gave each of us in turn a welcome drink
from his canteen. We wiped our dirty faces.
And then Captain Steve laid us out with a doozy of a
revelation.
“My brother fights for the Confederacy.”
The foxhole fell silent, as each of us boys imagined what it
would be like to be honor-bound to kill one’s own brother. Not
just pin him down, and drool loogies inches from his face, but
actually kill him. Holy Monitor and Merrimack, that was heavy.

2

THE CAR
But this was no time for sentimentality or introspection.
Captain Steve lowered his spyglass and called out that he could
see Nathan Bedford Forest astride a dapple gray stallion in the
distance, and Stonewall Jackson and even Robert E. Lee surveying
the carnage with cool eyes. The bullets continued to rain and
the casualties continued to mount and the parrot guns bellowed
to deafen the devil. “It’s getting damn hot in here boys!” said
Captain Steve. But there was only one way out of hell and that
was forward. Following Steve’s hand signals we scrambled 20 feet
to the left and flung ourselves down behind a shallow granite
overhang. It was good cover. Now it was time to give those Rebs
a taste of their own business. “Fix bayonets, men. On the
double-quick!” As we moved out, all the pent up tension of the
day was released. We out-shot, out-yelled and out-fought those
Rebs. With a charge of dazzling bravery the boys of the Fighting
69th were able to retake Purgatory Ridge, in this, the 19nd Battle
of Bull Run.

***

The troops refreshed themselves and nursed their wounds over
Cragmont root beer. Steve held court and we younger boys
listened intensely. He was only a year or two older, going into
7th grade, but he already had the signs of manhood — a slight

3

THE CAR
definition to the bicep, a wisp of dark down on his upper lip, a
high forehead genetically predisposed to a widow’s peak, and a
hint of tempered steel in his glance under a darkening brow. He
wasn’t like the other older boys, he was more thoughtful. And he
would never tease us, or make us eat dog biscuits. This was our
Captain Steve. And we all wanted to be just like Steve when we
grew up to be 12.
One of the younger boys pointed at a passing hot rod, an
immaculate ’68 Firebird. We all whistled and expressed
admiration, and then looked to Steve for confirmation. Steve
looked into the distance with those inscrutable eyes and gave
his verdict.
“We should go back to the days before cars.” When no one waded
into the silence, Steve continued, “The world would be a better
place without cars. We should just use horses. And ride bikes.”
Was he being for real? Or was he just messing with us, as he
sometimes did, pulling rank, reminding us that he was among us,
but not of us.
Peter, a short boy with shoulders beginning to broaden and a
teeth-gritting, jaw-jutting hustle, whether the game was
basketball, kick-the-can, or soccer, spoke up. And when he
spoke, he spoke for all of us. “”But not all cars are bad. What
about ambulances?”
We all nodded. It was a good point. But Steve held his ground.

4

THE CAR
“More people have been killed by cars than will ever be saved
by cars,” said Steve, and spit into the summer dust, ending the
discussion.
We boys finished our Cragmont sodas in silence.

***

In the early 90’s, the Japanese car makers started working on
a secret initiative. They knew the Warming was coming, and they
were worried that they would be held responsible. They didn’t
want to be the cigarette companies of the 21st Century. After
watching the debacle that was the electric car, and realizing
the stranglehold that the “energy companies” (i.e., Big Oil) had
on the economy and therefore the policymakers in Washington,
they decided to split the difference. Create a “hybrid.” Honda
was the first to come to market, with a sleek bucket of bolts
called the Insight. One of the problems with the two-door, 70mpg Insight was that it still looked like a Jetson’s-style
nerdmobile of the future – aerodynamically covered back wheels
and all. In ’93, Toyota introduced the first generation hybrid
Prius, so unremarkable in its ugliness that it could be called
the world’s first invisible car. It disappeared into the
backwaters of history without a splash.

5

THE CAR
It was with the second-generation Prius that the movement
really took off. The part-gas, part-electric Prius was a
compromise in every conceivable way. Indifferently drivable.
Modestly ugly. Mildly techy. And, HUGELY popular. Given its
milquetoast soul, the backlash was tragi-comic in its intensity,
manifesting itself in throwback plastic buffoonery such as: 70’s
muscle car knockoffs, as well as ‘truck nuts’ - scrotum replicas
hung from the trailer hitches of V-8 pickup trucks. But dangling
testicles could not forestall the inevitable and within 25
years, nearly all new vehicles were “hybrids,” i.e., powered by
an internal combustion engine, augmented with an electric motor.
From there, it was only a small step to electric cars. Everyone
agreed, the electric cars were better, hands down. Faster, more
fun to drive, easier to maintain. Soon the combustion engine was
a nostalgic niche, a curiosity; a collector’s item. But the
damage was done. The Earth was haggard, abused, chronically
fatigued, bereft of beauty. Her weariness was contagious.
Distracted, medicated and doused in CBD, we ping-ponged from one
screen to the next. Even language itself, became, like, I don’t
know, sort of like, imprecise? Lacking in certainty? As if
communication itself questioned its ability to communicate. Got
all sorta, kinda muddy-ish. Truth was just your opinion. All the
good, positive words like hope, peace, charity, joy, love and
optimism received the same tired eye roll – verbal artifacts,

6

THE CAR
ruins of a bygone time when, just for instance, Miami wasn’t a
type 7 malarial swamp.

***

The Warming came on more slowly than the alarmists predicted
but rapid enough to cause widespread destruction and societal
upheaval. No one really anticipated the extent of the fires, and
how they would compound the greenhouse effects. No one really
understood the inter-relatedness of the jet stream and sea
currents. The impact on weather and changing migratory patterns.
The devastation caused by the bark beetle. Desertification. The
water shortages. Temperate zones turning tropic and the north
becoming the new temperate. The land and resource grab
occasioned by the ice melt. The warming waters accelerating the
melting of the ice caps exponentially. The homeless refugees of
third world corporate colonial exploitation coming home to
roost, and the first world, dealing with the mounting global
humanitarian crisis, putting up literal and figurative walls.
The rich hid behind their encrypted bank accounts and password
protected gates in AC cooled mansions and penthouses,
systematically dismantling all checks, all balances, all unions
and all rights to resist and organize. The organs of free speech

7

THE CAR
became a grim parody. The only news item you could rely on to be
even remotely impartial and accurate was the weather.

“Today we have an E-Storm Watch in effect. Look out for flash
flooding. Those nearest the high waterline keep your inflatables
handy. The air quality is moderately unhealthful, so wear a mask
if you plan any outdoor activity. Back to you, Brenda, for
sports.”

***

The erosion and exhaustion of soil. The nitrogen blooms and
rise of drug-resistance bacteria, microbes and contagions like
malaria and TB. The mass deaths of arctic mammals and fish. Sea
lions, harbor seals, salmon, cod. The beaches becoming stinking
sulfuric boneyards; a medium circle of hell lacking only
brimstone. The crows, pigeons, seagulls, ants, and cockroaches –
and curiously, rabbits – didn’t seem to mind. Some days it
seemed like those were the only species of creatures left.
No joke, today I read about a genetic breeding experiment
where they’re trying to get the crows and rats to eat the
cockroaches. That scientist will win the Nobel effing prize.

***

8

THE CAR

Maybe the humidity got to everyone. No one had the will to
fight anymore. And the South did rise again, slowly.
Relentlessly. Inevitably. When the vote for secession came up in
the House it went through like a no-contest divorce. There was a
bit more discussion and posturing in the Senate, but it passed
there, too — with some abstentions. It’s possible that everyone
just figured that the president would veto it in the end, so no
one would have to lose face. But in the end, Madame President
called Texas’ bluff. The “Lone Star State” had threatened for
years to make good on its slogan, and with the north drowning in
tropical thunderstorms and the daily compounding of federal
debt, she signed. What followed didn’t exactly mimic the pattern
that preceded “The War Between The States,” but close. After
Texas came South Carolina, Mississippi, Alabama, and the north
half of Florida, “Floribama.”* (*A name that started as a joke
but gained momentum as a way to delineate a separate identity
from the more multi-cultural Caribbean-influenced southeast
coast of Florida.) It was as if the Southeast Athletic
Conference had decided to create their own nation, and so
subsist solely on sports licensing and gambling revenue.
Tennessee was the lone holdout. And really, with the
balkanization happening around the world, what made us think
that we were immune? The former Great Britain had become

9

THE CAR
Scotland, Wales and England; Italy had shattered into a number
of city states, as had Greece. Catalonia was its own nation,
independent of Spain. The global economy was borderless, global,
block chain and instantaneous but everyone wore their localized
nationality like a badge, or more accurately, like their
football club, on shirts made in Bangladesh. The South was
emptied of nearly 15% of its population, as rising heat and a
general unwelcome atmosphere forced self-identifying
‘progressives’ north. Camps were set up in Wyoming and Montana far from the Tsunamis and now reasonably temperate.

On the eastern seaboard, people fought the sea, wind and
elements with the same grim acceptance that they’d always fought
the Long Island RR and the 7:30 commute. Lower Manhattan became
a system of dykes and canals, beautiful in its own way. I liked
to think that 600 years after being founded by the Dutch, it
finally, truly became a New Amsterdam. My personal pet chimera
was that Canal Street become an actual canal, but no such luck.
It remained a hawker’s paradise, one booth after another
offering novelties, rhinestone encrusted snap-back brims and
knockoff jewelry.
And that brings us up to the present; or really, yesterday. I
was leaving my spin class, the full VR experience, with the
bikes that tilt and climb. I’d done 43 miles around Lake

10

THE CAR
Wakatipu on the New Zealand’s South Island before walking back
out into the Howard Street gloom. The City smelled of ammonia
and the now-familiar swamp rot. Above, the low ceiling of clouds
roiled and tussled like rabid cats in a dank wet bag. I walked
over to the Starbucks on Lafayette and out front I saw a black
lab waiting patiently for its owner. When it looked up at me my
memory broke its leash and took off running.
“Hey, it’s a Bosco,” I said, half aloud and to myself.

***

I’d loved Steve in the way only boys can with that cool
unquestioning alloy of trust, honor and loyalty. Steve was my
hero, quite possibly immortal and best of all, the older brother
I never had. Then and even now I appreciate his gift for
creating worlds in which all of us neighborhood boys could live,
as summer days turn to twilight, the spell only broken by calls
to dinner. The magic on the other side of “Let’s say …” Entire
worlds with rules of their own and an inner logic and their own
gravity. The historical battles we refought. (“Cover me!”) The
epic ballgames we replayed. (“Five, four, three, two, one … he
shoots and …”) His family dog Bosco was 100% pure, unadulterated
boy’s best friend, and could reliably guide us through any
minefield.

11

THE CAR
So, yeah, I was there when the car hit Steve’s dog. We were
playing catch with his dad’s football, regulation size, the kind
that stings your hands and will sprain your fingers if you’re
not careful and of course Steve threw hard. But stinging pink
hands were a small price to pay for the privilege of basking in
the halo of Steve’s aura. After awhile we decided to embark on a
mission to the Stop-In for candy. The road to the store was busy
enough to have a yellow line down the middle. Bosco wasn’t
supposed to come, not ever, and Steve tried a number of times to
make him turn back. But Bosco was loyal. “Dumb dog,” Steve
finally said with feigned irritation, and quietly relented.
Bosco could take care of himself, we felt, so we weren’t
concerned. Bosco paced alongside us, and then ran ahead to scout
at intervals, curving back to the beat of his own doggie
algorithm, looking at us as if to say ‘Hey guys, where we going?
All good so far?” On one of these curl routes Bosco drifted out
into traffic, and before we could react a red Audi A4 hit Bosco
in the hindquarter and spun him hard in a 360. Bosco’s eyes met
ours, full of pain and mostly puzzlement. His crushed haunches
collapsed under him and into themselves as he attempted to drag
himself to safety with his forelegs. All Steve could do was hold
his dog’s head in his lap while Bosco’s pained yelping grew
quieter and then he stopped twitching altogether and shaking and
shivered to stillness.

12

THE CAR
The car never stopped.

13


