He  dreamed  that  a  dog  was  pissing  on  his  face.    
Chris  Lowery  groaned,  struggling  to  evade  its  fetid  trajectory,  and  in  the  
process  stirred  awake.  A  dog  was,  in  fact,  pissing  on  his  face.  
“Geroff!”  he  grunted,  shoving  the  mutt  off  his  chest  with  delirious  effort.  He  
wiped  the  piss  off  his  face  as  the  mangy  thing  scuttled  down  the  alleyway  with  a  
wounded  yelp.  Chris  rubbed  his  bloodshot  eyes  with  the  backs  of  his  hands,  trying  to  
blot  out  the  blinding  glare  of  the  sizzling  midday  sun.  His  head  was  pounding  and  his  
throat  felt  like  it  was  lined  with  cactus.  There  was  a  splotch  of  dried  blood  crusted  
on  the  crotch  of  his  jeans.  
He  was  in  a  trash-­‐strewn  alleyway  somewhere,  in  a  decrepit  neighborhood  
downtown.  The  street  was  eerily  silent  except  for  distant  music  blasting  from  an  
open  window  a  few  blocks  down;  its  thudding  beat  reverberated  dully  inside  his  
throbbing  brain  like  a  death  knell.  He  swatted  at  the  flies  buzzing  lazily  around  the  
puddle  of  piss  he  was  still  sitting  in.  A  shattered  bottle  of  Crown  Royal  lay  at  his  feet,  
its  cracked  surface  glinting  slivers  of  sun  so  blinding  that  when  he  shut  his  eyes,  he  
saw  their  ghostly  afterimages  etched  into  the  backs  of  his  eyelids  like  jagged  scars.    
He  rubbed  his  eyes  some  more  and  looked  around  for  his  cigarettes.  He  
found  the  pack  in  the  mouth  of  a  storm  drain,  soggy  with  piss.  There  were  three  left.  
He  plucked  one  from  the  pack  and  put  it  in  his  mouth  only  to  realize  he’d  lost  his  
lighter  the  night  before.    
“God  damn  it,”  he  said  aloud,  and  wished  he  hadn’t.  Those  three  words  
echoed  sadly  off  the  graffiti-­‐splattered  alley  walls,  settling  in  the  dense  summer  
silence  like  an  aborted  prayer.  The  echo  grew  distorted  and  faded  into  silence;  it  
seemed  to  carry  with  it  every  ounce  of  his  despair.    
Chris  dug  in  his  pockets  for  his  cell  phone,  the  cigarette  hanging  limply  from  
his  mouth  like  a  dead  worm.  It  was  1:30;  more  than  enough  time  to  grab  a  shower  
and  a  cup  of  coffee  before  his  CytoCheck  appointment.  And  buy  some  more  
cigarettes,  of  course.  That  was  paramount.  
…  
  
An  hour  later  he  sat  trembling  in  the  packed  CytoCheck  waiting  room,  his  
hangover  flowing  and  ebbing  and  flowing  again  like  a  sadistic  tidal  wave.  The  
CytoCheck  had  been  converted  from  a  gas  station  years  ago,  but  it  still  smelled  like  
gas,  the  residue  of  long-­‐dead  things  dug  up  and  burned  to  cause  more  death.  He  
inhaled  deeply,  relishing  the  heady,  carcinogenic  scent  that  was  somehow  alluring  
despite  its  known  toxicity,  like  the  siren  suckle  of  a  menthol  cigarette,  or  a  
refreshing  glug  of  diet  soda.    
There  was  a  kind  of  magic  to  that  evil  truth:  that  the  things  you  love  most  are  
the  most  dangerous  things,  and  they  never  fully  take  their  leave.  The  lover  who  
betrayed  you  might  be  dead  for  years,  but  their  memory  will  haunt  you  relentlessly  
if  you  let  it.  Likewise,  the  ghosts  of  industry  were  pervasive.  The  COTE  (Cancer  on  
the  Earth)  fanatics  could  suicide-­‐bomb  every  factory  on  the  planet  and  still  have  no  
hope  of  scrubbing  it  clean,  not  ever.  Not  when  radiation  zones  could  last  a  million  

  

2  

years,  and  the  topsoil  might  not  rebound  for  millennia;  not  when  toxicity  was  fused  
into  the  earth’s  ecosystems,  coalesced  insidiously  into  the  water  and  air  and  soil,  
metastasized  beyond  repair.    
Chris  glanced  nervously  at  the  digital  clock  above  the  entrance,  carefully  
avoiding  eye  contact  with  the  other  patients.  He  knew  the  eyes  that  would  stare  
back  at  him,  sullen  windows  to  defeated  souls  peering  out  of  sunken,  Technicolor  
flesh.  Below  the  clock,  a  banner  proclaimed  in  proud,  rainbow-­‐colored  letters:  
CHERISH  THE  TIME  YOU  HAVE  LEFT.  This  was  likely  intended  as  an  invitation,  but  
read  more  like  a  command.  
He  tried  to  ignore  the  sounds  of  sickness  surrounding  him;  the  rhythmic  
coughing  and  retching  and  strained  breathing  creeping  in  from  all  sides,  making  him  
want  to  scream.  Through  the  dull  haze  of  his  hangover,  he  struggled  to  remember  
the  events  of  the  previous  night.  They  came  to  him  in  blurred  flashes,  like  a  series  of  
photographs  snapped  by  drunken  children:  the  party  and  the  tears,  the  failed  
attempt  at  consolation.  Bitter  resignation  smoothed  over  by  the  next  shot  of  
whiskey.  And  the  next  one  and  the  next,  until  at  some  point  he  must  have  tried  to  
stumble  home  and  ended  up  kissing  pavement  instead.  
Whose  house  had  it  been?  Likely  one  of  Syd’s  friends  –  sure,  one  of  those  
rotting  Victorian  deals  the  Nihils  loved  to  squat  in.  Not  that  Syd’s  friends  -­‐  or  any  of  
Chris’s  crowd  -­‐  were  Nihils;  even  if  you  did  happen  to  find  one  that  was  halfway  
cool,  there  was  no  use  getting  to  know  them.  They  treated  suicide  like  a  game.  Not  
that  Chris  blamed  them  much;  the  Big  C  freaked  him  out,  too.  Despite  being  fed  a  
constant  stream  of  propaganda  for  the  past  nineteen  years  (still  a  good  six  below  the  
average  expiration  date),  he  was  still  ignorant  as  to  the  actual  mechanics  of  the  
disease,  and  so  it  contained  for  him,  despite  its  daily  reality,  a  quasi-­‐mystical  
dimension.  It  was  far  easier  to  fear  what  you  didn’t  understand.  
He  understood  that  cancer  was  uncontrolled  cell  growth,  but  he  couldn’t  tell  
you  how  chemotherapy  worked  (the  “red  devil”  he  injected  every  month  or  so  to  
keep  up  appearances  was  really  just  saline  and  food  coloring),  or  the  latest  targeted  
gene  therapies,  or  the  newer  strategies  either,  the  micro-­‐rays  and  psyla-­‐pulses,  or  
any  of  the  remedies  on  the  opposite  end  of  the  spectrum:  the  vast  homeopathic  
array  of  phytoplankton  poultices  and  smoke  lodge  cleanses,  all  that  hippie-­‐dippie  
bullshit…in  the  end,  the  human  body  was  just  so  much  meat,  and  cancer  –  paint  your  
skin  any  color,  people!  –  was  only  rot  contaminating  said  meat.  Aimee  understood  
that;  she’d  accepted  that  blunt  reality  without  denying  her  own  reason  to  live,  to  
persist,  which  was  partly  why  he  loved  her  so  much.    
But,  last  night…he  almost  wished  he  didn’t  remember.  
  
It  had  been  the  usual  Tuesday  night  rager,  complete  with  the  usual  cast  and  
the  usual  substances.  Syd  had  supplied  the  booze,  Greg  hauled  a  briefcase  full  of  
coke  and  pills,  and  the  twins,  Luke  and  Carmen,  had  brought  a  quarter-­‐ounce  of  
weed.  The  music  was  blasting,  the  liquor  flowing,  the  smoke  gagging,  the  collective  
high  soothing  in  its  encompassing  cloud  of  numbed-­‐out,  laissez-­faire  euphoria.  
Most  of  them  were  visibly  showing,  but  they’d  covered  their  tracks  well.  Even  
Aimee  had  been  feeling  good  for  the  first  time  in  ages.  So  good,  in  fact,  that  she’d  had  
the  audacity  to  reach  for  Chris’s  crotch  as  they  lounged  together  in  the  bedbug-­‐

  

3  

riddled  Goodwill  armchair  opposite  the  television.  The  TV  was  blaring  livestream  
footage  of  the  DC  riots,  hordes  of  undead  protesters  spilling  out  into  the  streets  like  
a  busted  open  bag  of  Skittles,  their  dyed  clothes  and  painted  skin  signifying  what  
type  of  C  they  had.  Red  meant  colon,  gray  brain,  fuchsia  lung,  pink  breast  and  so  on,  
until  the  colors  became  paint  sample-­‐detailed;  Crayola  specific.  
But  none  of  them  wore  their  colors  that  night  -­‐  that  was  the  whole  point.  That  
was  why  they  hosted  these  parties.  For  a  few  hours,  they  could  be  normal  young  
people  again,  instead  of  the  prematurely  enfeebled.  So  with  rising  apprehension  
mingled  with  arousal,  Chris  had  kissed  Aimee  on  the  neck  as  she  continued  to  grope  
him,  ignoring  her  clammy  skin,  focused  intently  on  the  cloying,  rain-­‐on-­‐flowers  
scent  of  her  perfume.  He  ran  his  hands  over  the  smooth  flesh  of  her  bald  head,  
sucking  gently  on  her  earlobes.  Her  purring  moan  became  a  guttural  cough,  which  
she  just  barely  managed  to  stifle.  
“Come  on,  babe,”  she  whispered  huskily,  pulling  Chris  to  his  feet  and  guiding  
him  out  towards  the  patio.  “No  one  will  notice.”  
No  one  did;  their  friends  were  too  blissfully  stoned  or  drunk  or  faded  on  any  
galaxy  of  pills  to  care.  Pills  were  all  the  rage;  the  hottest  shit  was  a  bootleg  Japanese  
concoction  of  dopamine  boosters  still  in  its  trial  phase  (you  could  get  anything  off  
the  internet),  which  they’d  dubbed  “Fuckitall.”  Aimee  had  turned  them  on  to  its  
potential;  they  were  each  coasting  on  half  a  pill  tonight,  300  milligrams  of  blissful,  
floaty-­‐brained  escape.  
    Aimee  had  his  jeans  off  in  seconds,  her  hands  pulling  him  free  a  little  too  
frantically,  but  Chris  wasn’t  complaining.  This  was  the  most  action  he’d  had  in  
weeks.  His  high  was  so  warm,  so  protective,  pleasantly  blended  with  his  creeping  
liquor  buzz.  He  was  about  to  light  a  cigarette  when  Aimee  seemed  to  hesitate.  
“You  sure  you’re  up  for  this?”  she  asked  him,  so  sweetly  it  hurt.  “I  mean,  is  
your  head  –“  
“I’m  fine,  Aimes,”  he  breathed,  smiling  despite  his  shame,  which  fell  over  him  
suddenly  like  a  shadow  on  a  summer’s  day.  “I’m  really  okay.  My  head’s  been  feeling  
great  tonight.  I  should  be  asking  if  you’re  up  for  this,  really.”  He  tried  to  laugh  but  
froze  at  Aimee’s  crestfallen  expression,  the  familiar  pain  rising  in  her  eyes  like  
plumes  of  oil  in  a  polluted  sea.  
“I  want  this,”  she  said,  almost  desperately,  and  Chris  moaned  as  she  began  to  
nibble  gently  on  his  swollen  flesh.  “I  want  you.”  Electric  waves  of  pleasure  tingled  
through  him,  tightening,  intensifying.  She  consumed  him.  After  only  a  couple  of  
minutes,  he  felt  his  knees  begin  to  buckle,  and  didn’t  have  time  to  warn  her  before  
his  climax  came  on  strongly,  pathetically  sudden  –  and  Aimee  held  on,  clinging  to  
him  fiercely,  as  though  she  meant  to  squeeze  the  soul  out  from  his  flesh.  
Chris  closed  his  eyes  and  sighed  contentedly.  He  lit  his  cigarette  as  Aimee  
released  her  grasp,  planting  little  kisses  on  his  stomach  before  gazing  up  at  him.    
He  opened  his  eyes  and  screamed.  
“What?”  Aimee  exclaimed.  “What  is  it?“  
Then  she  saw  it  herself,  glistening  darkly  on  his  softening  manhood,  staining  
the  crotch  of  his  jeans.  She  wiped  her  lips  with  the  back  of  her  hand,  horrified.  Her  
mouth  was  covered  with  thick,  syrupy  blood  that  shone  black  as  motor  oil  in  the  dim  
patio  lamplight.  Her  lips  dripped  steadily  onto  the  tiled  floor.    

  

4  

Chris  pulled  his  pants  up,  afraid  to  look  Aimee  in  the  eyes.  He  snuffed  out  his  
cigarette  on  the  wall,  his  hands  shaking.  The  chatter  from  inside  had  ominously  
ceased;  he  felt  his  stomach  hollow  and  queasily  roll  over  like  a  bag  of  water  falling  
through  air.    
“I  –  I’m  sorry,”  Aimee  stammered,  using  her  sleeve  to  wipe  more  blood  off  her  
lips.  “I  really  thought  I  was  going  to  be  okay  tonight…Jesus,  maybe  it  was  that  tequila  
earlier.  Oh,  God  –  I  -­‐  uergh!”  She  gagged,  then  throatily  hocked  up  what  looked  to  
Chris  like  a  chunk  of  lung.  She  ran  past  him,  mortified,  into  the  house.  
They  turned  to  stare  as  he  followed  after  her,  Syd  half-­‐frowning,  Greg  smiling  
unaware  as  he  snorted  another  line  of  coke  off  the  cracked  glass  tabletop.  The  twins  
looked  up  at  him  wide-­‐eyed  from  the  couch,  nervously  fiddling  with  the  tips  of  the  
plastic  IV  tubes  that  snaked  secretively  from  their  shirtsleeves.  Their  identical  eyes  
were  like  those  of  holocaust  victims:  mournful  but  remote,  resigned  to  suffering.  
Chris  pounded  on  the  bathroom  door.  He  could  hear  Aimee  in  there  retching.  
The  water  was  running;  she  was  trying  to  muffle  the  sounds  of  her  sickness.    
“Don’t  worry  about  it,”  he  called  through  the  door.  “Let’s  catch  a  ‘bus  and  go  
back  to  my  place,  okay?  Watch  a  movie  or  something?”  
Aimee  mumbled  something  unintelligible  that  was  washed  out  by  the  
running  water.  
“What?”  
She  groaned,  and  Chris  heard  the  lock  click.  She  was  leaning  over  the  toilet,  
drooling  strands  of  bloody  saliva  into  the  bowl  with  a  series  of  sickening  plops,  her  
carefully  concealed  agony  exposed  to  him  at  last,  her  mask  of  salubrity  fully  slipped.  
He  fought  back  tears;  he  even  tried  to  smile.  
She  flushed  the  toilet  and  turned  to  face  him.  Chris  lit  another  cigarette.  He  
waited.  
“I’m  just…I’m  sorry  we  haven’t  had  sex  in  so  long,”  Aimee  said  finally,  
pathetically.    
Chris  sighed  and  dragged  roughly  on  his  cigarette,  exhaling  a  plume  of  
noxious  smoke  that  drifted  upwards  to  be  absorbed  by  the  greater  cloud  of  smoke  
hovering  in  their  midst.  “Don’t  be,  babe.  You’re  sick.”  
“We’re  sick,”  she  corrected  him,  frowning.  He  couldn’t  stop  thinking  how  pale  
she  looked,  how  cruelly,  dangerously  drained.  “Only  this  kind  of  thing  never  seems  
to  happen  to  you,  does  it,  Chris?”  
“Honey,”  he  said,  with  a  ghost  of  his  usual  smile,  “I  could  be  on  life  support  
and  still  try  and  find  a  way  to  have  sex  with  you.”  He  slid  an  arm  around  her  waist,  
but  she  twisted  out  of  his  grasp.  
“Chris,”  she  said  coldly,  “I’m  dying.  You  know  I  am.  We  all  are.  But  –  God,  
sometimes  I  don’t  think  you’re  even  sick!  Not  like  the  rest  of  us,  man.  You  take  your  
meds,  you  have  your  migraine  episodes,  but  you  don’t  show  it.  You  just  don’t.  I  used  
to  think,  ‘oh,  maybe  he’s  just  that  strong  -­‐  maybe  he’s  braver  than  everyone  else.  
Maybe  he’s  found  a  way  to  hide  it,  to  make  us  feel  like  it’ll  be  all  right,  like  I’ll  be  all  
right’…”  He  saw  her  exasperation,  her  quiet  fury  manifesting  into  tears.  
“Aimee,”  he  said,  pleading.  He  was  struggling  not  to  cry  too.  “Please,  baby,  we  
don’t  have  to  talk  about  it.  We  don’t  have  to  talk  about  anything  tonight.  We’ll  do  

  

5  

whatever  you  want,  whatever  you  need.  I  love  you,  Aimes.  I  love  you  so  much  it  
hurts,  I  swear  to  you.  So  can’t  we  just…’fuck  it  all,’  you  know?“  
She  stood  there  staring  at  him,  her  eyes  glistening  pools  of  fathomless  
misery.  A  trickle  of  blood  slid  slowly  down  her  chin.  “I  love  you  too,  Chris,  you  know  
I  do.  But  I  can’t.  I  just  can’t  be  around  you  right  now.  I’m  sorry.”  And  without  another  
word,  she  stormed  past  him  into  the  hallway,  ignoring  his  frantic  pleas  to  stay.  He  
flinched  at  the  sound  of  the  front  door  slamming.  
He  wanted  to  follow  her,  but  of  course  he  couldn’t;  that  was  the  only  rule  of  
their  get-­‐togethers.  Crowley’s  revelation:  ‘Do  what  thou  wilt  shall  be  the  whole  of  
the  Law.’  You  were  free  to  do  whatever  you  pleased  so  long  as  you  didn’t  get  in  
anyone’s  way.  The  cruelest  thing  a  person  could  do  was  to  waste  someone  else’s  
time,  when  time  was  so  severely  limited.  
  So  Chris  had  walked  back  into  the  kitchen,  mixed  himself  a  strong  whiskey  
and  coke,  and  joined  the  others  in  the  living  room.  The  TV  had  switched  livestreams  
from  the  DC  riots  to  a  COTE  demonstration  in  San  Francisco.  A  veritable  army  of  
naked,  rainbow-­‐skinned  hipsters  was  throwing  carts  of  processed  food  and  
Monsanto-­‐grown  vegetables  off  the  Golden  Gate  Bridge.  The  scene  was  ludicrous,  
but  none  of  them  was  really  watching  it.  
The  mood  had  changed  with  Aimee  gone.  Chris  sank  into  the  couch,  listening  
idly  to  the  others  talk  about  various  drug  potencies  and  popular  TV  shows.  He  
swallowed  his  drink  without  tasting  it.    
“Hey,  take  it  easy,  man,”  Syd  slurred  from  the  end  of  the  couch,  smiling  
drunkenly  over  at  Chris.  “Forget  about  that  girl  awhile,  you  know?”  
  Chris  sighed,  and  lit  another  cigarette.  
  
…  
  
He’d  fallen  for  Aimee  the  second  he  saw  her,  sitting  alone  in  the  back  of  their  
college  cafeteria  with  a  copy  of  Viktor  Frankl’s  Man’s  Search  for  Meaning  in  one  hand  
and  a  water  bottle  full  of  some  unknown  dark  liquor  in  the  other.  This  was  only  last  
year,  but  it  felt  like  decades  ago  to  Chris.  
She  was  very  pretty,  in  the  fashionable  cancer-­‐chic  kind  of  way  (the  look  was  
so  in  vogue  by  then  that  younger  girls  who  weren’t  even  sick  yet  would  go  to  great  
lengths  to  mimic  it),  with  sunken  eyes  and  an  almost  elderly  delicacy,  her  skin  so  
pale  it  was  nearly  translucent.  She  was  beautifully  bald,  so  strikingly  that  he  couldn’t  
imagine  her  with  hair  or  a  wig.  But  what  had  attracted  him  most  was  her  other  
color,  the  one  she  wore.  
She  was  dressed  head  to  toe  in  all-­‐consuming  black:  an  embroidered  black  
gown,  black  mourner’s  veil,  black  skull  earrings  dangling  from  her  ears.  The  newly  
widowed  look  that  even  widows  no  longer  wore,  since  funerals  had  changed  so  
much.  Like  check-­‐ups  and  hospital  visits,  they  had  become  sanitized  operations,  
castrated  of  emotion;  you  attended  a  funeral  with  the  same  expectations  you  had  
going  to  a  car  wash,  or  getting  a  haircut.  
“You  really  don’t  give  a  damn,  do  you?”  Chris  asked  the  girl  by  way  of  
introduction.  He  stood  grinning  at  her,  transfixed.    

  

6  

He’d  worn  his  hair  long  then,  and  Aimee  told  him  later  she’d  thought  he  was  
just  some  hippie,  maybe  a  COTE  inductee.  For  a  second  he  thought  maybe  he’d  
offended  her,  but  then  she’d  laughed.  He’d  thought  the  sound  much  too  mirthful  for  
her  kind  of  creature.  
“No,  I  really  don’t,”  she  said,  with  a  devious  smile.  
He  walked  over  to  her.  “Mind  if  I  join  you?”  He  pulled  up  a  chair  without  
waiting  for  an  answer.  Aimee  lifted  her  veil,  draping  the  length  of  it  down  her  
hairless  head  like  some  kind  of  B-­‐movie  villain,  analyzing  him.  
The  whole  cancer-­‐color  thing  had  been  fairly  novel  by  then  (no  one  had  taken  
to  body  painting  yet),  but  was  growing  in  popularity.  The  campus  was  already  
littered  with  sickly  students  dressed  in  greens  and  yellows  and  pinks;  already  the  
color  you  wore  became  a  symbol  of  pride.  You  wore  your  color  defensively,  as  if  to  
own  your  sickness,  to  cement  its  symptoms  into  the  foundation  of  your  character.  
There  were  those  who  surrounded  themselves  exclusively  with  members  of  their  
color,  who  ranked  various  hues  in  a  kind  of  hierarchy  of  disease.  Yet  although  no  
one  said  it  outright,  black  was  taboo;  black  wasn’t  a  color  at  all,  but  an  ominous  
shade.  The  Nihils  had  claimed  black  as  their  sigil;  black  meant  apathy,  and  despair.  
Chris  was  dressed  all  in  gray,  but  unbeknownst  to  Aimee,  he’d  only  donned  
his  color  since  the  start  of  the  semester.  The  idea  of  faking  it  had  been  an  aesthetic  
choice  then,  a  comfort  mechanism.  He’d  chosen  to  do  so  to  set  people  at  ease,  not  
out  of  an  urge  to  be  one  of  them.  
“What  stage  are  you?”  the  girl  asked,  and  then  added  almost  as  an  
afterthought,  “I’m  Aimee,  by  the  way.”  
“Two,”  he’d  said.  Two  seemed  safe.  “I’m  Chris.”  
“Four.  Diagnosed  last  April.  Fuck  it  all,  right?”  
“Right.”  
“No.  “  She  extracted  a  tiny  plastic  bottle  from  her  clutch  and  popped  two  
yellow  pills  in  her  mouth.  “Fuckitall.”  She  grinned.  “Normally,  now  is  when  we’d  ask  
each  other  about  our  respective  majors  and  future  plans  or  whatever.”  She  leaned  in  
close  to  Chris  over  the  table  and  winked.  “Or  we  could  just  get  right  to  it,  Mr.  Stage  
Two  Brain.  Tell  me,  can  you  feel  your  tumor  pressing  against  your  gray  matter,  
distracting  you  from  your  studies?”  
Chris  wasn’t  offended  by  her  callousness;  he  wouldn’t  have  been  even  if  he’d  
had  cancer.  Instead,  he  appreciated  her  frankness,  her  bitter  humor.  It  was  
refreshing  after  the  year  of  denial  he’d  had  to  endure  when  his  mother  was  sick,  all  
her  painful,  forced  smiles  and  naïve  optimism  occluding  any  opportunity  to  
honestly,  openly  suffer,  so  that  even  now  she  seemed  to  haunt  him.  He  could  almost  
hear  her,  chuckling,  ‘oh  I  could  never  die  Chris.  In  fact,  I  feel  just  fine!’  
  
“So  far  so  good,”  he  told  the  black  girl  brightly.  “But  to  be  honest,  I  don’t  see  
much  point  in  going  to  college.”  
  
“Yeah,  me  neither,”  she  agreed.  “Except  my  parents  paid  for  it  before  they  
died,  so  I  felt  obligated  to  give  it  a  go.  Until  I  get  too  sick,  I  guess.  What  about  you?”  
  
“Well,  I  got  a  scholarship,  so  –“  
  
“No,  I  mean,  what  about  your  parents?”  
  
“What  about  them?”  

  

7  

  
He  stared  at  her  for  a  long  moment,  trying  to  determine  exactly  how  drained  
her  well  of  sympathy  might  be  by  now,  how  much  feeling  she  actually  had  left.  
  
“My  mom  died  three  years  ago,”  he  said.  “My  dad  was  diagnosed  last  week.  
Stage  three.”  This  wasn’t  a  lie.  His  mother  had  died  horrifically  slowly,  in  grit-­‐
toothed  pain;  his  father,  meanwhile,  had  simply  woken  one  day  with  a  slight  
throbbing  in  his  jaw,  which  had  quickly  blossomed  into…  
  
“So  now  I’d  like  to  know  something  else,”  the  girl  said  gravely.  “The  ‘what  do  
you  want  to  do  after  you  graduate?’  kind  of  question.”  
  
“Oh.  Okay.”  
  
“Except,  you  know  what  I’m  really  asking.”  
  
Chris  thought  about  it  for  a  moment,  and  then  said,  “What  do  I  want  to  
happen,  or  what  do  I  believe  happens?”  
  
“Believe.”  
  
He  shrugged.  “I  don’t  believe  it  really  matters,  because  we  won’t  remember  it.  
Whatever  happens  is  going  to  happen,  you  know?”  
His  answer  seemed  not  just  to  satisfy,  but  stimulate  her.  Aimee  tilted  her  
head  up  slightly,  her  eyes  hopelessly  alive.  “So  what’s  your  take  on  The  Man  
Upstairs?”  
  
Chris  scratched  his  chin  in  thought.  “I  like  the  idea  of  God  being,  like,  the  
energetic  field  that  unites  all  living  things.  Or  maybe  just  the  guiding  principle  
behind  natural  forces…I  don’t  know.”  
  
She  stared  at  him.  “Tell  me  more.  This  is  all  I  can  think  about.”  
“Well,”  he  continued,  “what  I  really  think  is,  that  doesn’t  matter,  either.  God  has  
nothing  to  do  with  this  epidemic.  We  did  this  to  ourselves.”  
  
Aimee  smiled  then  -­‐  a  smile  bright  enough  to  ward  off  death,  he’d  thought.  
The  idea  of  that  brilliant  luminosity  simply  blinking  out  of  existence  was  next  to  
impossible;  you  might  as  well  try  shutting  off  the  sun.  
…  
  
  
He  was  roused  from  memory  by  the  call  of  the  CytoCheck  automated  
attendant.  “Patient  #218767,”  the  sexless  voice  announced.  “Lowery,  Christopher.”  
  
Chris  got  up  and  walked  toward  one  of  the  curtained-­‐off  consultation  stalls  at  
the  rear  of  the  building.  The  light  above  the  room  flashed  a  sickly  green;  below  it,  his  
patient  ID  scrolled  by  on  a  digital  ticker.  He  entered  the  stall,  his  heart  pounding.  
The  curtains  were  painted  a  deep  blue  to  help  keep  patients  calm  as  they  received  
their  diagnoses.  He  stripped  naked,  his  hands  shaking  slightly  as  they  undid  the  
buttons  on  his  piss-­‐stained  over-­‐shirt.  The  cold  tiled  floor  made  him  shiver.  
  
He  sat  on  a  steel  stool  facing  the  CytoCheck  docbot,  a  chrome-­‐plated,  cube-­‐
shaped  robot  with  a  tentacle-­‐like  appendage  sprouted  from  its  center.  Fixed  on  the  
end  of  this  appendage  was  a  retractable,  spheroid  camera  eye.  This  eye  was  
currently  glowing  red,  peering  at  Chris  with  inhuman  intensity,  subtly  widening  its  
infrared  iris  as  it  scanned  his  internal  organs  for  signs  of  illness.  
  
After  a  minute  or  so,  the  docbot  emitted  a  satisfied  beep,  and  its  appendage  
retracted  smoothly  back  into  its  body.  A  flexible  metal  tentacle  emerged  in  its  place,  
armed  with  a  long,  needle-­‐tipped  syringe.  It  slithered  toward  Chris’s  thigh  with  pre-­‐
programmed  purpose.  He  felt  his  skin  prickle  even  before  the  needle  made  contact,  

  

8  

wincing  as  it  slid  in  and  out  of  his  vein  as  quickly  as  a  scorpion’s  sting.  He  watched  
his  blood  siphon  into  the  vial,  letting  loose  a  shaky  sigh  as  it  vanished  back  into  the  
docbot.    
The  voice  came  from  internal  speakers  inside  its  metallic  body;  all  docbots  
had  the  same  strategically  designed,  soothingly  maternal  voice.  It  seemed  as  
artificially  empathetic  as  any  flesh-­‐and-­‐blood  doctor;  of  course,  you  had  to  have  a  
great  deal  of  money  to  afford  one  of  those.  
  
“Christopher  Lowery,  Caucasian  male,  aged  nineteen,”  the  docbot  said.  “I’m  
pleased  to  say  I  have  good  news.  Your  blood  tests  from  last  week  all  came  back  
normal;  no  detectable  signs  of  cancer.  However,  I  strongly  advise  that  you  stop  
smoking,  and  limit  yourself  to  one  alcoholic  drink  per  day  at  the  maximum.”  
  
Chris  said  nothing.  He  knew  this  was  typically  when  you  were  supposed  to  
cry  with  relief,  or  pray  to  God,  or  something  equally  useless.  
  
“Your  check-­‐up  fee  has  been  automatically  deducted  from  your  account,”  the  
docbot  continued  pleasantly.  “Please  report  here  next  month  to  discuss  the  results  
of  this  afternoon’s  test.  Have  a  healthy  day!”  The  machine  seemed  to  shut  down,  and  
then  he  heard  a  low,  mechanical  whirring  from  within,  as  if  it  had  forgotten  
something.  “And  please  quit  smoking  already,  Chris.”    
  
Chris  gave  a  short,  bitter  laugh,  trying  not  to  think  how  much  its  tone  
reminded  him  of  his  mother.  
…  
  
  
He  stood  on  the  corner  outside  the  CytoCheck,  alternately  deep  breathing  
cigarette  smoke  and  the  smog-­‐infested  air.  Across  from  the  CytoCheck,  an  ancient  
factory  of  some  kind  was  pumping  forth  thick  plumes  of  smoke  from  its  hulking,  
phallic  smokestacks.  The  factory  was  horrifying  in  its  immensity,  a  mess  of  rusted  
steel  and  rickety  ladders,  indomitable  amongst  a  backdrop  of  urban  blight.  He  felt  
certain  it  would  still  be  there,  farting  out  its  billowy  black  poison,  long  after  he  was  
gone.  
  
He  stared  at  the  huge  plasma  screen  towering  above  the  CytoCheck,  which  
was  running  an  ad  for  one  of  the  new  Death  Centers  cropping  up  in  the  area.  Looped  
on  the  screen  was  a  series  of  heartbreaking  familial  vignettes:  a  father  weeping  as  
he  euthanized  his  sleeping  five-­‐year  old  daughter  with  a  lethal  kiss,  in  a  facsimile  of  
her  princess-­‐themed  bedroom;  a  grown-­‐up  version  of  the  same  girl  euthanizing  her  
now-­‐middle-­‐aged  father  with  the  same  kiss  while  he  watched  the  game  from  his  
favorite  armchair;  a  husband  making  love  to  his  wife  with  a  toxic  condom;  the  
inverted  perspective  of  the  wife  as  she  experienced  the  throws  of  her  orgasm  and  
inward  rushing  death,  crying  from  ecstasy  and  rapturous  submission.  Give  the  one  
you  love  the  gift  of  Release,  ran  the  slogan  at  the  bottom  of  the  screen.    
  
The  ad  made  Chris  think  of  his  father,  who  was  rotting  away  from  lymphatic  
cancer  in  a  posh  health  center  upstate.  He  hadn’t  paid  him  a  visit  in  nearly  six  
months.  That  last  visit,  Stephen  Lowery  had  been  gravely  disappointed  with  his  son  
for  dropping  out  of  school,  but  that  wasn’t  what  kept  Chris  from  visiting.  His  dad  had  
been  practically  begging  to  go  to  a  Death  Center  upstate,  but  admission  had  to  be  
mutually  agreed  upon  by  both  patient  and  next  of  kin.  And  just  as  his  mother  would  
have  failed  to  rise  to  that  occasion  (or  even  acknowledge  it  as  an  option),  Chris  

  

9  

couldn’t  bring  himself  to,  either.  Losing  his  mother,  after  seeing  her  fight  so  hard  
until  her  bitter,  wide-­‐eyed  end,  had  been  maddening  enough.  
  
He  ambled  along  the  crumbling  sidewalk  in  search  of  a  public  electro-­‐bus.  He  
tried  Aimee’s  cell,  but  it  went  straight  to  voicemail;  either  her  phone  was  dead  or  
she  was  blocking  his  calls.  He  wondered,  not  for  the  first  time,  how  she  would  react  
if  he  told  her  the  truth.  How  much  she  might  despise  him.  
  
He  wondered  where  Aimee  was  now.  Neither  one  of  them  had  jobs;  part  of  
their  pact  in  quitting  school  involved  shunning  work  as  well,  which  they  viewed  as  a  
waste  of  existence.  Thankfully,  they  each  had  enough  inheritance  money  left  to  
support  their  decision.  That  money  had  dwindled  steadily  over  the  past  few  months,  
but  neither  of  them  had  felt  any  pressure  to  adapt.  Their  lives  were  lived  day-­‐to-­‐day,  
party-­‐to-­‐party;  nearly  everyone  in  their  age  group  had  entered  some  version  of  late-­‐
life  crisis  at  the  ripe  old  age  of  twenty.  
  
Aimee  was  probably  at  her  apartment,  a  ratty  bungalow  she’d  inherited  from  
her  mom,  sleeping  off  the  dregs  of  last  night’s  ugliness.  Or  she  might  be  in  the  
company  of  her  terminal  friends  -­‐  Stacy,  or  that  Gwen  girl.  Probably  eating  ice  cream  
and  talking  about  him  and  their  fight  last  night.  Her  girlfriends  loved  any  drama  that  
took  the  focus  off  the  only  drama  that  really  mattered,  which  was  their  imminent  
deaths.  
  
But  as  it  turned  out,  Aimee  had  never  gone  home.  Her  bike  wasn’t  locked  up  
on  the  porch,  and  her  place  looked  desolate.  Nonetheless  Chris  pounded  on  her  door  
for  a  full  minute,  puffing  on  cigarette  after  cigarette  until  there  was  a  small  pile  of  
butts  littered  on  the  doorstep,  and  he  thought  he  might  faint  from  light-­‐headedness.  
By  that  time,  a  few  of  Aimee’s  neighbors  were  watching  him  from  their  windows,  
their  faces  drawn  and  worried  and  old,  like  mummies  disturbed  from  a  thousand-­‐
year  slumber.  It  was  almost  sundown,  and  Chris  wanted  to  be  off  the  streets  by  
nightfall.  The  night  attracted  ragged  gangs  of  dying  thieves,  many  of  them  Nihils,  
who’d  slit  your  throat  for  a  bottle  of  meds.  
  
Stacy  picked  up  on  the  third  ring.  She  sounded  impossibly  weak,  and  he  had  
to  strain  to  hear  her  over  the  fuzzed  reception.  “Yeah?  Who  is  this?”    
  
“Chris,  Aimee’s  boyfriend.  We  met  at  that  house  party  at  Gretchen  Well’s  
place  a  couple  months  ago?”  
Stacy  sniffed  into  the  phone;  she  sounded  like  she  was  trying  hard  not  to  sob.  
“Yeah,  I  remember  you.  How’s  Gretchen  these  days?”  
  
“Dead,”  Chris  replied.  “Listen,  have  you  heard  from  Aimee  today  by  any  
chance?”  
  
Dead  silence;  for  a  minute  he  thought  maybe  she’d  hung  up  on  him,  but  then  
she  said  in  a  flat,  emotionless  voice  that  made  his  pulse  spike  and  his  blood  chill,  
“You  didn’t  hear?”  
  
“Hear  what?”  
  
Again  that  terrible  sniffling.  “Hear  what?”  he  repeated  impatiently.  
  
“Aimee’s  in  the  mini-­‐hospital  on  Glenbrook,  Chris.  She  went  septic  this  
morning.”  
  
…  
  
  

  

10  

  
The  tiny  yellow  indicator  light  on  the  life  support  machine  flashed  in  
intermittent  synchronization  with  her  pulse,  twinkling  in  and  out  of  existence  like  a  
fading,  but  persistent  star.  Aimee’s  coma  had  been  induced  shortly  before  he  
arrived;  he’d  had  to  push  his  way  through  an  army  of  docbots  and  shambling  cancer  
zombies  too  sick  for  their  colors  anymore  (except  the  final  color,  which  was  ash  
grey)  to  find  her.  
  
Aimee’s  room  was  a  cement-­‐walled,  Spartan  cell.  Hospitals  were  like  prisons  
these  days,  crammed  to  the  gills  with  patients  who  checked  in  to  fight  and  lose  their  
futile  battles,  to  stall,  to  wither,  to  undergo  machine-­‐performed  surgeries  guided  by  
a  sole  human  overseer  whose  initial  guise  was  like  that  of  a  symphony  conductor  
but  in  actuality  was  closer  to  that  of  an  assembly  line  foreman,  or  butcher:  severing  
flesh  from  bone,  extracting  tumor  after  tumor  like  so  many  pounds  of  raw  meat.  Cut  
it  out,  measure  it,  collect  your  fee.  Next  customer.  
  
Chris  watched  Aimee  lying  there  tied  to  her  cot  by  a  web  of  tubes  like  a  fly  
caught  in  a  spider’s  web,  only  without  the  struggle.  She  looked  to  him  like  Sleeping  
Beauty’s  bare-­‐headed  specter,  silhouetted  ethereally  by  the  sun  setting  through  the  
barred  window  behind  her,  dozing  without  awareness  in  the  shadowy  void  between  
life  and  death.  He  watched  her  chest  rise  and  fall  beneath  the  thin  hospital  sheets,  
like  mortal  waves  cresting  slowly  into  stillness.  He  studied  her  emaciated  face  
glistening  with  sweat  beneath  the  harsh  fluorescent  lights,  savoring  the  acrid,  
sanitized  hospital  smell  pervading  her  cell,  straining  to  grasp  these  last  few  
moments  with  her  even  as  they  slipped  from  him  like  water  through  a  fatally  
cracked  glass,  leaking  steadily  away  despite  the  illusion  of  permanence.  It  was  
impossible  to  slow  down  time,  to  hold  onto  anything.  
  
“I’m  so  sorry,  Aimes,”  he  whispered  hoarsely.  His  eyes  were  raw  and  tear-­‐
stung.  He  was  infinitely  grateful  that  the  NurseAid,  a  nursing  machine  with  
retractable  latex-­‐gloved  hands,  had  seen  fit  to  close  Aimee’s  eyes.  It  spared  him  the  
knowledge  of  whether  or  not  she’d  be  able  to  truly  see  him.  How  deep  was  her  coma,  
he  wondered;  did  she  know  he  was  here  with  her?  Could  she  feel  his  presence?  
  
He  wished  he  could  have  kissed  her,  but  the  umbilical  tubing  that  supplied  
her  oxygen  ran  from  her  mouth  into  the  life  support  machine.  Instead  he  placed  his  
hand  upon  her  breast,  hotly  alive  beneath  the  thin  fabric,  and  felt  for  her  heartbeat.  
It  proved  difficult  to  isolate  with  all  the  ambient  hospital  noise,  the  endless  beeping  
and  clicking  and  whirring  of  machinery,  the  distant  murmurs  of  the  docbots  and  
echoing  moans  of  their  delirious,  dying,  infantile  patients.  Everywhere,  in  all  
directions,  they  screamed  and  sobbed  and  were  hushed  and  soothed  and  medicated  
into  submission,  like  pouty  children  rocked  into  their  final  cradle,  whose  deadly  
womb  promised  release  and  forever  sleep.  
  
He  was  still  looking  for  her  pulse  when  the  docbots  wheeled  into  the  room  to  
turn  her  life  support  off.  This  latest  visit  had  sapped  Aimee’s  already  depleted  
account.  In  the  end,  it  seemed,  the  ride  was  only  really  ever  over  when  your  money  
ran  out.  
  
…  
  

  

11  

  
It  took  him  a  week  to  make  up  his  mind;  maybe  his  mind  had  already  been  
made,  but  he  still  needed  time  to  collect  himself.  A  week  was  more  than  enough  time  
to  grieve,  because  time  so  moved  fast  these  days.  In  that  week,  the  Nihils  set  to  
burning  down  museums  across  the  world,  slashing  the  Mona  Lisa  to  shreds  and  
toppling  ancient  Roman  sculptures,  decimating  priceless  artifacts,  because,  they  
decreed,  they  no  longer  mattered.  In  that  week,  three  million  children  died;  in  that  
week,  suicides  quadrupled  nationwide.  People  got  sick,  died,  and  kept  on  chugging.  
There  was  little  else  for  them  to  do.  
  
When  he  could  no  longer  ignore  the  impulse,  Chris  took  a  public  electro-­‐
buses  down  to  the  health  center  where  his  father  lived.  When  he  saw  his  son,  he  
beckoned  Chris  in  for  a  tight  hug,  despite  the  months  of  silence  that  lay  between  
them,  ruffling  Chris’s  hair  like  he  used  to  do  when  he  was  a  child.    
Stephen  Lowery  looked  like  he  had  aged  twenty  years  since  Chris  had  seen  
him  last.  His  once-­‐domineering  frame  was  frail  and  hunched,  collapsed  into  the  
wheelchair  that  claimed  his  body;  his  head  was  bald  and  liver-­‐spotted,  and  below  
his  chin,  his  withered  neck  was  lumpy  with  veined,  egg-­‐like  tumors.  Only  his  eyes  
were  untouched  by  the  illness  that  eroded  him;  they  were  bright  blue  and  strangely  
clear,  almost  youthful  in  their  focus.    
  
Chris  wheeled  his  father  out  onto  the  verandah,  where  they  sat  at  one  of  the  
dining  tables,  watching  the  more  mobile  patients  lounging  on  deck  chairs  and  
talking  amongst  themselves.  Some  were  even  playing  croquet,  if  pathetically.  The  
‘health  center’  was  effectively  a  luxurious  hospice;  part  of  the  reason  Chris  had  
ignored  his  father’s  pleading  for  so  long  was  because  he  couldn’t  grasp,  until  now,  
how  truly  superficial  it  all  was.  Beneath  the  pristine  veneer  of  order  and  affluence,  
the  same  brutal  reality  awaited  them  all.    
  
In  halted,  measured  tones,  Chris  related  to  his  dad  the  events  of  the  last  few  
months.    
  
“I’m  sorry  to  hear  about  Aimee,”  his  father  said  kindly,  when  he  was  finished.  
“She  was  a  wonderful  girl,  Chris.”  His  gaze  was  mournful,  yet  surreally  calm,  the  sad,  
sure  affectation  of  a  man  who’s  lived  through  more  than  perhaps  he’d  imagined,  or  
wanted.  
  
“Do  you  think  she’d  hate  me  for  what  I  did?”  Chris  asked.  He  needed  
suddenly,  badly,  to  know.  “For  lying  to  her?”  Here  he  was  sitting  across  from  his  
dying,  wheelchair-­‐bound  father,  whom  they  both  knew  yearned  for  something  only  
Chris  could  grant  -­‐  yet  he  was  the  one  who  sounded  desperate.  
  
His  father  remained  infinitely  serene;  his  speech  bore  the  contemplative  
grace  of  a  sage  or  a  Buddha,  of  someone  whose  mind  has  moved  patiently  beyond  
the  nagging  constraints  of  the  physical  vessel.  
  
“No,”  his  father  said  reassuringly,  “I  don’t  think  that  girl  could  ever  have  
hated  you.  And  you  shouldn’t  beat  yourself  up  about  pretending  to  be  sick,  either.  
What  you  should  be  asking  yourself,  son,  are  the  questions  that  really  matter:  would  
your  being  sick  have  changed  the  way  you  felt  about  Aimee?  Did  you  ever  stop  
loving  for  her,  caring  for  her?  Did  you  abandon  her  when  her  sickness  got  too  
difficult  to  manage,  or  when  she  broke  down  from  her  pain,  and  her  sorrow?  Did  
you  avoid  her?  Did  you  lead  her  on?  Did  you  ever  hold  anything  she  did,  or  said,  
against  her?  Did  you  ever  do  these  things?”  

  

12  

  
“No,”  Chris  said  at  once,  because  it  was  true;  his  love  for  Aimee  had  been  a  
blight  against  the  cruel  jungle  of  her  disease.  There  was  nothing  he  had  ever  felt  for  
her  but  hopeless,  unfathomable  love  so  deep  and  blue  he  could  have  drowned  in  it,  
willingly,  a  thousand  times  over.    “But,  Dad  –“  
  
“Then  nothing  else  matters,”  his  father  interrupted,  smiling  softly.  “You  just  
need  to  forgive  yourself,  that’s  all,  Chris.  It’s  far  too  heavy  a  weight,  and  much  too  
fleeting  a  season  to  carry  any  baggage  you  don’t  need.  Okay?”  
  
“But  –“    
  
“Okay?”    
The  smile  hardened  slightly,  and  Chris  sighed.  “Okay.”  
One  of  the  nurses  (living,  breathing  people  worked  at  the  health  center  
alongside  bots,  a  luxury  which  his  dad,  a  veteran  ad  executive,  could  well  afford)  
came  over  to  bring  them  lunch  and  his  father’s  mid-­‐day  chemo  treatment.    
Chris  munched  thoughtfully  on  his  portion  of  veggie  bacon  as  the  nurse,  a  
rail-­‐thin  girl  who  looked  half-­‐dead  herself,  carefully  inserted  the  IV  into  his  father’s  
bioport.  A  bright,  blood  red  liquid  seeped  steadily  from  the  chemo  bag  down  the  
clear  tubing  that  wound  into  his  father’s  body.  Watching  it,  Chris  was  reminded  of  
Aimee  lying  in  her  hospital  cot,  and  had  to  look  away.  
Off  in  the  distance,  beyond  the  low-­‐lying  hills  that  surrounded  the  health  
center,  a  black  pillar  of  smoke  billowed  insistently  into  the  placid,  late-­‐summer  sky.  
Probably  one  of  the  museum  fires,  Chris  realized.  From  his  vantage  point  it  looked  
like  some  sort  of  biblical  omen,  like  a  sacrificial  offering.  He  thought  back  to  the  
religion  class  he  took  last  year,  recalling  the  Greek  roots  of  the  word  ‘holocaust’:  
literally,  whole  burning.  Humanity  was  in  the  midst  of  a  holocaust,  he  knew,  perhaps  
the  final  go-­‐around.  For  the  first  time  that  day,  Chris  found  himself  reaching  for  a  
cigarette.  The  habit  seemed  pointless,  now  that  Aimee  was  gone;  no  use  in  hastening  
the  inevitable.  But  it  was  hopeless  trying  to  quit.  He  was  addicted.  
“I  really  wish  you  wouldn’t,”  his  father  said  mildly,  watching  him.  The  nurse  
had  wandered  off  to  attend  to  the  other  patients.  
Chris  hastily  stashed  the  cigarette.  “Sorry.”  He  forced  himself  to  look  at  his  
father,  to  accept  the  dark  reality  of  the  alien  tube  feeding  him  poison  which  his  body  
so  readily  accepted,  drank  down  clean  as  mother’s  milk.  
“Look,”  Chris  said  determinedly,  “the  real  reason  I  came  is  because  of  the  
Death  Center.  Dad,  is  that…is  that  still  what  you  want?”  
A  subtle  wave  of  energy  washed  over  his  father’s  features;  the  benevolent  
eyes  darkened  slightly,  keen  with  purpose.  It  was  a  very  slight  change,  but  Chris  
recognized  it  just  the  same.  He’d  seen  that  look  a  thousand  times;  he’d  seen  it  when  
he  was  five  years  old  and  his  dad  came  home  from  work  one  night  to  find  Chris  
crying  in  his  mother’s  arms,  his  thumb  badly  dislocated  after  tumbling  down  the  
basement  stairs;  he’d  seen  it  when  his  mother  was  first  diagnosed,  and  again  when  
his  father  himself  was  diagnosed;  he’d  seen  it  half  a  year  ago  when  he’d  announced  
that  he  was  dropping  out  of  school.  The  same  measured,  calm  focus  which  spoke  
simultaneously  to  restraint  and  intensity.  
“Yes,”  his  father  said.  “Of  course  I  do.  I’m  in  tremendous  pain,  Chris.”  
“Your  nurse  said  you’re  responding  well  to  treatment,”  Chris  said  stubbornly,  
precisely  the  way  his  mother  would  have.  

  

13  

“I  don’t  just  mean  physical  pain,”  his  father  told  him,  and  his  smile  seemed  
suddenly  more  like  a  grimace.  Chris  thought  about  the  immutability  of  loss,  and  the  
inevitability  of  death;  he  thought  about  Aimee  dressed  all  in  black  and  the  book  
she’d  been  reading  that  day,  which  he’d  read  twice  since  then  and  was  re-­‐reading  
now.  And  as  he  thought,  he  felt  himself  begin  to  smile,  too.  
“Okay,”  he  said.  “I’ll  sign  the  consent  form.  And  I’ll  be  with  you  for…for  your  
release.  Maybe  I’ll  even  do  it  myself.”  He  hesitated,  still  thinking  of  Aimee.  “But  I  
want  to  know,  Dad,  I  don’t  think  you’ve  ever  told  me.  I  know  I  haven’t  asked  you...”  
He  took  a  deep  breath.    
“What  do  you  think  happens  when  you  die?”  
Stephen  Lowery  studied  his  son  for  a  long,  tranquil  moment,  looking  pleased  
but  not  at  all  surprised,  as  though  he’d  anticipated  this  question  the  moment  Chris  
had  arrived.  
“I’d  like  to  think  the  eastern  religions  had  it  right,”  his  dad  said  ponderously.  
“The  Hindus  and  Buddhists.  I’d  like  to  think  the  energy  which  makes  up  my  residual  
consciousness  –  my  spirit,  if  there  is  such  a  thing  –  will  be  sent  back  into  the  world  
as  a  butterfly,  in  search  of  the  flower  who  was  your  mother.”  He  gave  a  withering  
sigh.  “But  I  don’t  know,  Chris.  All  I  know  is  that  death  means  letting  go.  And  that’s  
enough  for  me  to  want  it.”  
Chris  nodded  in  understanding.  They  sat  in  silence  as  one  of  the  nurses  came  
to  clear  their  trays,  and  then  Chris  raised  his  eyebrows  cleverly  and  said,  “So  you  
want  to  be  a  butterfly,  huh?”  
And  for  the  first  time  since  before  his  mother  got  sick,  he  heard  his  father  
laugh.  
  
…  
  
The  aquamarine  woman  (was  aquamarine  ovarian  or  peritoneal?  Chris  
couldn’t  remember)  was  screaming  her  lungs  out  in  the  middle  of  the  CytoCheck  
waiting  room,  putting  on  a  crazed  matinee  for  anyone  who  cared  to  watch.    
“It’s  a  hoax!”  she  was  screaming.  “I  tell  you,  it’s  all  a  fucking  hoax!”  
The  seven-­‐foot  tall  steel-­‐plated  security  bots  were  already  on  the  move,  
calmly  beseeching  the  woman  to  desist  even  as  they  raised  their  deaf-­‐wave  tasers  
and  twitching,  metal  claws  in  warning.  “Please  remain  calm  and  come  with  us,  
ma’am,”  the  nearest  of  the  bots  intoned  in  a  reasonable  yet  firm  male  voice.  
The  woman  swung  her  purse  at  the  bots  with  a  crazed  war  whoop.  Her  
chrome-­‐aquamarine  wig  went  flying  into  the  crowd;  her  massive,  aquamarine-­‐
painted  tits  bounced  happily  inside  her  aquamarine-­‐dyed  tube  top.  “Don’t  you  
understand,  you  sheep!  They  want  us  sick,  it’s  just  a  business  to  them!  That’s  how  the  
health  companies  make  their  money,  don’t  you  see!  They  poison  the  food,  they  
poison  the  air  and  the  soil  and  the  water  supply  -­‐  it’s  all  public  knowledge!  Don’t  you  
see,  it’s  all  just  part  of  their  game,  and  all  we  have  to  do  is  to  –  “  
The  woman’s  desperate  screeching  fell  instantly  mute  as  the  bots  zapped  her  
with  their  tasers;  at  the  same  time,  two  of  them  grabbed  her  roughly  by  the  waist  
and  hoisted  her  in  the  air.  They  hauled  her  motionless  out  of  the  CytoCheck,  and  the  
crowd  of  patients  watched  her  go,  numb  in  their  sickness,  thoroughly  unperturbed.  

  

14  

A  sallow-­‐skinned  teenage  girl,  also  decked  out  in  aquamarine  threads,  shook  her  
painted  head  in  shame.  She  grinned  sheepishly  at  the  patients  sitting  beside  her,  
thoroughly  embarrassed  by  the  woman’s  behavior.  
“Patient  #218767,”  announced  the  sexless  voice  of  the  automated  attendant.  
“Lowery,  Christopher.”  
Chris  walked  past  the  rows  of  stunned  patients  into  the  consultation  stall  at  
the  rear  of  the  building,  his  mind  a  complete  blank.  He’d  been  up  drinking  and  chain-­‐
smoking  at  Syd’s  all  night,  and  wanted  to  get  this  over  with  as  soon  as  possible,  so  he  
could  rest  a  bit  and  get  right  back  to  it.  
He  ripped  off  his  clothes  and  threw  them  haphazardly  in  the  corner,  waiting  
for  the  docbot  to  do  its  thing.  He  closed  his  eyes,  shivering,  as  the  tentacled  red  eye  
scanned  his  body.  After  it  beeped  in  approval,  Chris  began  pulling  on  his  clothes,  
cringing  in  anticipation  of  the  needle.  But,  strangely,  the  docbot’s  appendage  stayed  
put  in  its  body.  Christ  thought  maybe  it  had  stalled  –  that  happened  sometimes  –  
and  felt  an  urge  to  give  the  thing  a  sharp  kick  in  its  side.  
“Christopher  Lowery,  Caucasian  male,  aged  nineteen,”  the  machine  intoned  
with  a  note  of  cautious  sympathy  sewn  into  its  maternal  inflection.  “I’m  sad  to  say  I  
do  not  have  good  news  for  you  this  afternoon.  Routine  scanning  has  detected  a  
small,  malignant  tumor  located  in  the  middle  lobe  of  your  left  lung.  Unfortunately,  
my  scan  confirms  the  presence  of  abnormal  cells  found  in  your  blood  sample  taken  
from  our  previous  appointment.  Cancer  cells  were  also  present  in  your  lower  
tracheal;  initial  readings  would  suggest  a  secondary  stage  of  preemptive  
metastasis.”  
The  docbot  fell  silent  for  what  felt  like  the  longest  second  of  Chris’s  nineteen  
years  of  existence.  
“I  do  apologize  for  the  news,  Chris,”  the  docbot  continued  emphatically,  “but  I  
did  warn  you  repeatedly  to  quit  smoking.”  It  paused  dramatically,  as  if  to  make  a  
point,  and  then  continued  pleasantly,  “Your  check-­‐up  fee  has  been  automatically  
deducted  from  your  –  “  
He  kicked  the  docbot  squarely  in  its  red,  cyclopic  eye.  The  machine  spun  
around  on  its  base  and  whirred  defensively;  simultaneously,  the  green  light  above  
the  consultation  booth  flashed  red,  and  a  shrill  alarm  sounded  from  the  docbot’s  
speakers.  But  Chris  was  already  halfway  out  the  door,  his  jeans  pulled  up  tightly  
around  his  waist,  ignoring  the  security  bots  shouting  at  him  from  the  end  of  the  hall  
and  the  long  rows  of  cancer-­‐stricken  faces  with  their  hollow,  wandering  eyes  
following  him,  piercing  him,  begging  him  wordlessly  for  answers  which  no  one  
could  ever  give,  for  there  were  none.  
  
…  
  
He  collapsed  onto  an  old  wooden  bench  outside  the  CytoCheck,  his  head  
swirling  with  fear  and  regret  and  cold,  black  humor.  At  the  forefront  of  his  mind,  
strangely  enough,  wasn’t  Aimee  or  his  parents,  but  the  ironic  reality  of  his  bedroom  
closet,  and  its  shelves  of  gray:  gray  hoodies,  gray  shirts,  gray  socks  and  boxers  and  
hats  and  jeans  and  jackets…He  laughed  out  loud,  not  bitter  laugher,  but  a  deep,  
racking  belly  laughter  that  made  his  sides  ache  and  passers-­‐by  shuffle  along  a  little  

  

15  

faster.  Imagining  himself  in  fuchsia-­‐colored  clothes  was  just  too  much,  man.  Forget  
about  it.  
Chris  wiped  the  tears  of  laughter  from  his  eyes  and  glanced  up  thoughtfully  
at  the  indomitable  cerulean  sky.  It  occurred  to  him  then  that  some  things  in  life  were  
immortal,  were  deathless.  How  billions  of  little  monkey-­‐like  beings  such  as  himself  
had  lived  out  their  entire  little  lives  crawling  and  laughing  and  working  and  fucking  
and  crying  and  dying  all  over  the  planet  for  countless  generations,  beneath  that  
same  imperious  sky,  through  which  the  sun  now  peered  benignly  from  a  bank  of  
sailing  cirrus  clouds  to  flash  its  golden  rays  onto  the  world.  
It  was  a  particularly  beautiful  day,  Chris  thought.    
He  sighed,  and  lit  a  cigarette.  
  
  
  
  
  


