Marla worked hard, grimly determined to get the hell out of her dead-end job at
Abel Glass. She’d already spent over a year at her desk with the bottle cap wedged under
its one too-short leg, listening to the office manager, Nedda, and the accounting clerk,
Trudy, give the play-by-play of their weekend fun—usually full of beer, line dancing and
men. Nedda was so unmindful of Marla’s interests and goals that she still invited her
along on Friday nights. “You’re nineteen, kid. Kick up your heels!” she’d say, ruffling
Marla’s heavy auburn hair, which fortunately lay right back down.
Marla was not about to be blown off course by partying or romance. That had
happened once before and look where it landed her. She could afford no more detours.
The last one, getting knocked up in Teddy Dardino’s rumpus room, is why she carried
Ace the GED and Crack the SAT study guides in her blue canvas tote.
Naturally, a job at a place like Abel Glass would bring Marla the wrong
boyfriend. “Landed him!” is how Nedda would put it. Casey came into Abel Glass a
couple of times a week, wheeling a dolly full of boxes, his khaki uniform shorts ending
just above his smiling knees, “Casey” machine-stitched in red cursive on a white oval
patch above his shirt pocket. If Nedda wasn’t there—she was often out in the shop
flirting with the guys—Marla signed for the packages. One morning, when she handed
Casey back his clipboard, he handed her a tissue-wrapped lump.
“What’s this?” Marla asked, cocking her head.
“For you,” Casey said.
“For me? Who from?”

Higher Education

2

Casey stood in front of her desk with his arms straight down at his sides like a
third grader. “Me,” he said.
Inside the nest of white tissue was a glass hummingbird. Casey had noticed
Marla’s theme—her stack of work orders anchored by a hummingbird paperweight;
pictures of National Geographic hummingbirds, their beaks buried in exotic flowers,
scotch-taped to her dented file cabinet; ruby-throated hummingbirds trapped beneath her
plastic desk protector. The glass bird grew warm in Marla’s cupped hands. She looked
up at Casey, whose eyes had always seemed a bit too close together, reminding her a little
of a collie. She noticed for the first time that he had lovely dark eyebrows. His smile
showed that he took good care of his teeth, and that he was both terribly pleased and
terribly shy.
After that day, Casey would have exactly one thing to say to her per delivery, as if
he’d made some kind of resolution. Something about Marla’s earrings, or the word that
was up on her word-of-the-day calendar, or some bird he’d seen on his route. Robins,
blackbirds—he couldn’t distinguish what was rare from what was common. Still, since
Marla could have been sitting at her desk wearing the Pope’s robes and Trudy and Nedda
wouldn’t notice, Casey’s small attentions had an effect, even if his look of open-faced
devotion made Marla feel a little embarrassed for him.
At noon every day Marla carried her sack lunch to the balding park across the
street where blue jays fought in the trees and bums snoozed in the sun. She hunched over
vocab and math problems while she ate. Gestation means: A) this B) that C) the next
thing D) none of the above. If the average baby quadruples in weight in three years, how
much will a seven pound three ounce infant weigh at age three?

Higher Education

3

If Marla kept at it, she could meet the admission deadline to McWhorty, the only
college in the county. Come fall, Marla would be a busy college co-ed barreling her way
toward a professional degree in something—she’d pick later—that would insert several
protective layers between her adult life and her sprawling family of mechanics, plumbers
and chain smoking housewives.
On the day Marla was to take the GED after work, Casey happened to wheel his
packages up to Marla’s desk just as she was discovering that she’d left her test
registration at home. He stood by while she dug through her blue tote and dumped her
purse on the desk, pawing through breath mints and grocery receipts and actually
swearing. Nedda walked in and stood with her hand over her mouth in mock horror, then
waved Casey over and took the clipboard from him while he kept his eyes on Marla.
“Can I help?” he asked, once his dolly was emptied.
“Shit, shit, shit! What am I going to do?” Marla dropped her face into her hands.
If she missed this test, she’d have to wait another year to apply to McWhorty.
“Try retracing your steps,” said Casey. “That’s what my mother used to say.”
“I know where it is!” Marla cried. “No bus can get me home and back to the test
center by 5:30!”
Casey’s eyes went to the glass hummingbird perched airily atop Marla’s Post-it
headquarters. “Maybe I can help.”
That’s how Marla came to arrive at the test center in a step van with a lightning
bolt on its side.
“Would you mind riding in back?” Casey had asked, wrinkling his forehead in
apology. “There’s a rule about passengers and I want to keep my job.” This is his career,

Higher Education

4

Marla thought, thinking a little less of him as she leaned through the turns, her eye on the
shelves of boxes surrounding her. Still, she was grateful, and that made her think a little
more of him.
Plus, Casey was now one of the only people she knew, family included, who’d
seen where she lived. She’d stepped on a Greyhound and moved to this town right after
she’d given up her baby at the hospital, a year and a half ago. It was the closest far away
big town she could get to.
Casey had idled his green van by the littered steps of her downtown apartment
building while she dashed upstairs to grab her test confirmation, and somehow that made
Marla feel closer to him, almost as if she’d read him a page from her diary. So, it was
easier to say yes when, the next week, he asked if she’d like to go to the zoo on Saturday.
He’d done his research too. “They’ve got a walk-through aviary with birds from all
over,” he told her.
It turned out Casey didn’t have a car. He’s like a kid, Marla thought, forgetting
that she didn’t have a car either.
“I could come over to your place and we could take the number 26 together,” he
suggested.
But Marla didn’t want him getting ideas. “I know what,” she said. “I’ll meet you
there. How’s 12:30?”
Saturday morning, Marla spread a beach towel over the aqua shag rug whose limp
pile hid God-knows-what, and commenced her exercise regime. Doing crunches to
tighten her stomach muscles was the only time she allowed herself to think of the baby,
the fuzzy-headed red-faced infant herself—and not her mother’s sour look at her

Higher Education

5

expanding girth, or how Teddy Dardino’s father had offered her $300, or how she’d
dropped out of school. Marla pictured the tiny fists and the wrinkled brow and miniature
lips of her baby and wondered what it would be like if at this very moment there was a
little girl sitting at the kitchen table behind her, coloring. At such times, Marla felt the
sweet and painful passage of possibility, with its cargo of hope and regret, as if she were
rocking in a dinghy, looking up at the towering side of a gleaming ship as it slid by. It
was thrilling and unsettling, and a relief when she let the notion go and was alone again at
sea.
Marla heaved her shoulders up from the floor; elbows touched knees. And again.
And again. She reminded herself that she’d done the right thing, recalling her mother’s
grudging suggestion that she squeeze a crib next to her teenage twin bed at home.
“What’re you gonna do that’s not a bigger shame than what you’ve already done?” her
mother had said, laying out a game of Solitaire on the coffee table. But Marla managed
to produce more shame—by giving the baby away and escaping.
In the shower, she analyzed her weekend plan. Going to the zoo with Casey,
where would that get her? She had the SAT to study for. The warm water flowing over
her gradually lured her into thoughts of the sun, then the zoo with its strange mixture of
sounds and smells, the shrieks, the roars, the scent of cotton candy and animal cages (she
hadn’t been in years), and Casey walking beside her. How tall was he anyway? He was
always standing up and she was always sitting down. Well, she’d find out when she got
off the bus at the zoo. The bus!

Higher Education

6

Marla twisted off the faucets hard and snatched the towel off the shower rod.
McWhorty was on the 26 line! If she hurried, she could stop off and visit the campus on
the way.

Two pillars held the arch that formed the main entrance to campus. Beneath the
school’s name, Latin words were chiseled into the granite, the O’s angled like diamonds,
the Us formed as Vs.
Students ambled across the quad, or lolled on the lawn, with books lying
facedown on the grass. In the campus bookstore, Marla inhaled the back-to-school scent
of cedar and vinyl, and wandered aisles stocked with equipment for the student life. She
scanned lists of required books for various classes, then browsed bumper stickers, coffee
mugs, even bibs imprinted with the McWhorty logo and mascot—a bagpipe player
wearing a graduation cap. She was handing the cashier three dollars for a key ring when
she noticed the clock on the wall: ten minutes to catch the bus.
As she came out of the Student Union, Marla spotted a stone building with wide
steps and Roman columns. She had to have one quick peek.
Her hurried footsteps echoed in the empty hallways, which smelled of old coats
and floor polish. The classrooms and offices were dark. Along one corridor, professors’
names were painted on the frosted glass of each door. Marla bent down to peer at a card
that listed office hours.
Before she could straighten up, a shadow appeared on the other side of the glass.
The door was yanked open and a middle-aged woman stood there in stocking feet. Her

Higher Education

7

rumpled blouse had come untucked from her tweed skirt and her short hairdo was mashed
flat on one side. On the couch behind her lay a plaid blanket and a bedroom pillow.
The woman squinted at Marla, then found her glasses hanging on a chain around
her neck. “Let me guess,” she said. “Your midterm grade?”
Marla was still marveling at the floor-to-ceiling books, the oriental carpet beneath
the polished desk, the framed diplomas and gilt-edged certificates.
“Talk to your TA on Monday, would you?” said the professor, tugging her skirt
into proper position.
As Marla opened her mouth, the phone rang. The professor sighed and waved
Marla in, shutting the door behind her. “Yes?” she said, picking up the receiver. “Oh,”
her tone soured as she heard who it was, and she turned to scowl at a framed photo on her
desk. In the picture, the smiling professor stood at a waterfall with her arm around a very
tall man with red hair and a mustache, her head tilted toward his armpit. “No! I plan to
stay right here, thank you very much! No, I assure you, I am quite comfortable.” She
slammed down the receiver. Almost instantly, the phone started up again. The professor
winced, opened a drawer and shook two Excedrin into her hand. When the ringing
stopped, she sighed and brought her attention back to Marla, who had just noticed the
clock tower through the window. Bus in five minutes. Last one until two o’clock.
“Okay, so what’s your story?” the professor asked.
Marla gushed out her dream about going to McWhorty in the fall. Was she
talking so fast because she thought she might still make the bus and not disappoint
Casey? Or because someone was finally listening? Once she started, she couldn’t stop.
She told the professor that she was the first person in her family to even think about

Higher Education

8

going to college. “I’ve had to work hard just to get where I am and I hate where I am.
I’m looking for opportunities. I want to find out what I’m capable of.”
“Well, isn’t that refreshing,” said the professor. Marla looked at her uncertainly,
trying to match her tone with the words. “And what kind of work are you doing now?”
the professor continued. “How’s your typing?” The huge metal hand on the clock face
outside the window ticked to the twelve, releasing a chorus of bells.

Back home, Marla sat in her most comfortable chair with her hands in her lap,
waiting to feel the gusto in her good fortune. Come on! A McWhorty contact! The
afternoon sun was interfering, making her squint. It streamed through the third-floor
windows ridiculing her progress—the art poster hung next to the beat-up doorframe, the
bright throw pillow on the sagging couch. Sounds of laughter and conversation from
neighboring apartments reached her through the thin walls and open windows. If there
was a word for what that made her feel, she might choose So? After all, companionship,
and more, were available to her. Casey, the zoo, the walk-through aviary, birds flying
from one point to another according to their bird purpose. She had made a choice.

On Tuesday when Casey wheeled the dolly in, Nedda was for once at her desk.
She had a thumpin’ hangover, as she put it, and wasn’t up to moving around much.
“Have Marla sign, wouldja, hon?”
The dolly wheels chirped as Casey rolled over to Marla’s desk. “Sorry about
Saturday,” Marla said, noticing that Casey had lost the good posture that was one of his
best features. “If I’d had your phone number I would have called to explain.”

Higher Education

9

He jotted down his number and handed it to her.
“I suppose we could try again,” Marla said.
Casey didn’t ask what happened. He stood a little straighter and said, “I’ll call for
you at your apartment. Friday at seven?” He sounded positively old-fashioned. It struck
Marla that he seemed both much younger and much older than she was.
So Marla started going out with Casey. He didn’t interfere with her forward
motion, and besides, she was a little lonely when she stopped to think about it. Casey
was nice and almost pleasant looking. She wasn’t swearing off men, after all.
On their third date, Casey showed up with two surprises—an old Valiant and a
16-year-old brother. “This is Borden,” Casey said, introducing the gangly kid. “He lives
with me.” He paused for Marla’s reaction, which was just, “Oh?” Casey went on,
“Borden wants to work delivery one day and now he’s old enough to learn to drive.
Besides, we could use a car, don’t you think?” he smiled at Marla when he said we.
That Saturday the three of them went bowling. While Borden stood with the
heavy ball lifted to his bony chest, getting ready to step down the lane and let it loose,
Casey filled her in a bit. “Our folks died, so I take care of Borden.” It sounded far too
simple, Marla thought. Borden knocked down half the pins and came grinning back to
Casey.
That night Casey took Marla out to dinner and she had a glass of wine. Ever
since the Teddy Dardino debacle, she promised herself she’d stay away from alcohol, but
the warmth of the restaurant, the lively buzz of the other diners, and Casey’s unexpected
“and a glass of Chianti, please,” changed her mind.

Higher Education

10

Soon she was finding new things to like about Casey—the way he looked at her
with a kind of nervous pride, and how he paid attention when she talked, as if he
expected it to be important. And she was talking—babbling, in fact—without caring
much if she’d be embarrassed later. “I need to be challenged. I need to grow. I need to
get out of this dead-end job and see what’s out there.” She paused, wondering why what
was so personal and important to her suddenly sounded so corny. “I mean, how will I
ever know what I can do if I don’t keep moving forward?” Casey nodded and lifted
another ravioli to his mouth. Was he just nodding, or did he really understand? Marla
decided to find out. “Know what I mean?”
“Well, kind of,” Casey said, looking cornered. “Every day is sort of a test.”
When Marla didn’t say anything, he added, “I mean getting my route done on time and
remembering everything and trying not to yell at Borden when he screws up at school—
that’s enough for me right now.”
Marla sighed and wadded her napkin in her lap. Clearly, she needed to break
things off with Casey. And to think that she had considered (okay, distantly, but with the
wine, more seriously) inviting him back to her apartment that night. His tentative
goodnight kisses had gotten her thinking, naturally. Now she congratulated herself on
figuring this out sooner rather than later, when things could get complicated. What she
needed was someone to urge her forward, or march alongside her, not champion the
status quo.
“And you, Marla. You’re really something just the way you are,” Casey said,
sealing his fate.

Higher Education

11

When Casey came into Abel Glass the next week he told Marla he was looking
forward to their trip to the flea market on Saturday. And did she maybe want to show
him how to bird watch on Sunday? Hummingbirds weren’t out this time of year, Marla
thought, and anyway she was planning to give Casey the break-up news over coffee after
the flea market. It would be hard on him, she knew, but at least he wouldn’t have to see
her at Abel Glass anymore. Earlier that week, the lady professor who slept in her office
had phoned to ask if Marla wanted to interview for a clerical position in the department.
“Here I go,” thought Marla, envisioning the gleaming halls and how hobnobbing with the
professors would help ease her way into academic life.
“I’m guessing you’ll be a big improvement over those students who take
advantage and try to do all their studying on the job,” the professor had said. “Just make
sure you’re here by 1:00. The office manager is coming in especially to interview you
and, frankly, she’s a bit of a Nazi.”
“Oh, I’ll be there,” Marla promised, brimming with gusto.

Since it was the flea market, Casey assumed it was okay to bring Borden along. It
would have been, but how was she going to have “the talk” with Borden there? But when
Marla made up her mind to do something, she saw it through. So when Borden was off
getting a snow cone, Marla said, “Let’s sit down a minute.”
On the bench she sat a little further from Casey than usual. “We just don’t have
much in common. We’re two different kinds of people. We want different things out of
life,” she told him, as if she were reading a list. As she expected, Casey looked stricken.
This new expression made him look older and for a moment she reevaluated him,

Higher Education

12

factoring in this new Casey, trying to imagine him in a suit, or giving a speech.
Unfortunately, here and now he was inarticulate and his case unconvincing. “But I just
really care for you, Marla,” was the best he could do. “I know that you don’t feel the
same way about me, but I guess I was hoping that over time you might.”
“There is someone out there who will be perfect for you,” Marla told him,
imagining a sweet, pretty enough girl, someone untroubled by future plans “And she
better count her blessings.” Marla suddenly felt the sincerity of her words and leaned
forward to kiss Casey on the forehead. His blue checked shirt gave off the scent of
laundry soap, which made her picture him doing the wash. Did he do Borden’s laundry
too? What did it matter!
Then she told him that she needed to get going because she had a job interview
and couldn’t be late. “A job interview?” Casey wanted to know all about it. So she told
him. Why not? “I’ll drive you,” Casey said. “Come on, I’ll get Borden.”
Marla argued for the bus, but Casey was determined. “Please. You need to let
me do this.”
As they drove, Borden in the backseat knowing nothing of recent events, Marla
was rehearsing answers for the interview. What if they asked how her hours would
change once she started classes? How would she handle it? Could she count on Nedda
to give her a good recommendation? Then a pinch of panic: How many words-perminute did she type, anyway?
A distant whining grew closer and louder until it became unbearable. A
motorcycle shot past them in the fast lane, causing all three of the occupants of Casey’s
car to cry “Geez!” The biker wore leathers and one of those barely legal beanie helmets.

Higher Education

13

When he caught up to other cars in the fast lane he didn’t compromise his speed. Instead
he wove through the other lanes and back to the fast lane to move ahead two cars.
Suddenly, he tore across all three lanes to make the next exit. Marla held her breath as he
tried to make the turn onto the exit ramp. The motorcycle leaned too sharply and skidded
into the curb. The rider, pitched off like a rag doll, slid along the road, while his bike
spun up the ramp on its side raising a shower of sparks.
Casey moved over a lane and swung his car to the shoulder. “Borden, the call
box,” he pointed, leaping out of the car. He sprinted to where the black form lay in the
middle of the ramp. Marla remained in the passenger seat, the small car rocking as
vehicles barreled by on the highway.
Borden hung up the receiver and returned to stand alongside the car. They
watched as Casey kneeled beside the man, who had somehow wound up on his back with
his jacket over his head. Casey unzipped it and Marla could see his lips moving as he
bent down to say something to the man. A breeze lifted Casey’s blue checked shirt,
exposing the pale curve of his back and the white elastic band of his underwear. Marla
looked away, staring at the highway shrubbery at the side of the road and picturing Casey
bent over like that taking care of ordinary things, tying a child’s shoelace, fitting together
a train track, planting a rose bush. The car rocked and settled again.
In the years to come, that stretch of pale skin, the slope of Casey’s back, had a
certain staying power. It was an image that would appear to her at unlikely moments.
When Marla stood before a burnished conference table giving a presentation about
benefit packages, for instance. Or when she looked at the framed photo on her desk and
wondered what expression appeared on her face when she answered calls from the man

Higher Education

14

pictured with her. At such times, she tried to confine her thoughts to employment,
wondering what jobs required hero’s credentials and if Casey would have thought to look
for them.
But now Marla sat in Casey’s Valiant reminding herself that she could not afford
to revisit decisions. Not unless she was willing to replay those agonizing weeks of
pregnancy when she paced with a hand pressed to her aching back, thinking and thinking
and finally deciding, in secret and all alone. And then cramping and screaming and
delivering her girl and handing over the one person who was in it with her. In it to the
end, if Marla had so decided. Marla raised a hand to her breast, remembering the aching
press of milk that had come, regardless.
A few other cars had pulled over and people stood outside their open doors,
watching Casey. Someone had set out a few flares. Borden took a few steps in Casey’s
direction, then loped a bit and stopped halfway. Then he walked slowly to stand beside
his brother.
It was hard-hearted to be thinking about her interview at a time like this, but she
was, so why deny it? It was almost 1:00. Marla yearned for the people who were trained
and certified to handle situations such as this to arrive and save them all. Where were
they? Marla twisted in her seat hoping to see flashing lights. There. Finally, in the
distance, she heard a siren.


