By every right, the colony killer named Solemnity deserved to sink. Decommissioned by
nine-day storm. Assaulted by the persistent attack of a smaller, maneuverable, more capable
enemy ship. Burning from the inside by the inflamed lower-decked crewman fighting to break
the final door barring them of their insurgent prize. Every member on board maddened by the
ever-shifting gravity as the ship climbed and surfed the unnatural burgeoning swells.
All while lost, out in the open Atlantic.
But the HMS Solemnity kept its place. Between sea and storm. Walls thick. Its rooms,
floors and interiors were sealed by carpentry techniques employed by craftsmen and workers
stolen from all walks of life under the sun of the British Empire. By carpenters forced to toil for
their new king. Forced to ensure that no threat would prove too much for this ship. To ensure that
when the enemy, nature, the men within and the waters that lure the anchor below beg for it to go
under, to break apart, to sink and to stop moving, it never could.
The moving ground meant sickness in the minds and stomachs within. It meant a ship
with enough stores and farms of food to feed five villages could not feed its own. It meant a
command structure, containing those said to be the smartest alive in the fields of naval warfare,
could not find the breadth to finish a single thought. It meant Jensen, a stranger to voyage over
open sea, cowered within the Officer’s Quarters hoping for the sure words of a brighter mind.
Jensen dwelled over the unspoken command that might lift the unwell fog clouding his
every notion as the mad scramble of men played out before him. In his fear he could only wait.
For the Captain. For anyone, to give the order that might ease the knot twisting stomach to heart.

Jensen was the lowest ranked officer in the room due to an emergency conscription,
though what he had been conscripted for was a mystery long forgotten. Even under tame seas he
required escort to help him back to his own quarters. The naval jargon and day to day workings
of the ship were lost on him. Being raised by a rank and file family who sent him to the regiment
camps he learned how to judge a wound while under fire and how to march in the endless lines
drawn by the King during the aftermath of the Seven Year war.
In truth he was only a passenger. A transfer whose false papers told the crew that he was
under orders to join the effort in pacifying the rising tensions of the New World and Solemnity
took him without question.
He watched as nameless Officers of unknown rank clutched to their stomachs and to the
furniture nailed to the floors. Not one of them with the mind to speak. All of them holding tight
as those at the door strained to keep it shut long enough for a plan to form.
Water streamed down the walls and drops fell from the ceiling. Scattered fires and their
back and forth battles with the creeping seawater clouded the air with steam and smoke. A small
puddle of water moved around the room, sometimes flooding Jensen’s corner.
“It’s done.” The Captain said. Voice soft with defeat. Cracking from dehydration. “No
orders to give,” he knelt, “none left to order.” The Captain’s attention was on a map laid out on
the smooth carved table he clung to.
Transfixed, he loomed over the lavish portrayal of the world. Colors no longer holding.
His eyes watered over the blurring borders of the water-logged parchment. The red-inked
countries of the British Empire bleeding into the sky-blue sea.
The Captain held his world-spanning gaze. Deaf to the battering of mutiny on the other
side of the door.

Outside the room men were shouting, but if they shouted words Jensen couldn’t make
them out.
Jensen’s only thoughts were half-formed memories of the men he used to march with.
Loyal men who’d never turn to what those outside had done to send the Officers running into
their Quarters. He never guessed a crew on a ship like this could be anything other than tight
knit. He never guessed it could be like this.
A vibration in the floorboards brought quiet to those outside the door and it brought what
Jensen mistook as the spark of life back to the eyes of the room as they turned to the Captain.
Jensen’s mood lifted, for the rebellious outside had been soothed and not by violence. He
listened for the miracle that calmed them. For the good fortune about to be spoken.
Words from the Captain came. Spoken to the map. Not to the crew. Spoken to the paint
stroke that used to be home.
“There’s no coming back from this.”

Cold-water floating, Jensen missed the greatest promotion of his life. Vision foggy. He
imagined Solemnity submerged and that the water’s surface was far above him. His head ached
as the colors and lines before him shaped into a tightly growing forest that left no room for the
river surrounding him.
The woods swirled when the cold currents changed course. Feeling came back in freezing
shudders. The forest snapped into place and he saw the trees for the lines of boarded ceiling they
were. His back brushed the floor and he grabbed hold of the door frame as the waters tried to
carry him from the room.

Clog in the damn. He barred the others from passing until the strength to stand in the
knee-high current came back to him.
He was still in the Officer’s Quarters. He looked for the Captain. The waterline rose to
his chest. He held tight to the frame as the others were brought back into the room. The severity
of the ships bucking clear in the blunt trauma on their passing faces. Dead bodies bobbing, he
watched the waters rush them back out from the room and down the dark hall.
His grip tightened when the thuds of cannon-fire spoke through the frame. Telling him
that Solemnity still floated and that the enemy was unaware that the echelons of command had
parted. Jensen also felt a new malice to the way the ship moved. As though the ship spun as it
climbed, crested and made its way down the waves.
Jensen spotted the Captain after a tilt of the ship cleared the floating objects from the
room. Wedged under the smooth carved table, the blue-cloaked Captain was face-down in the
water. Scraps of map wrapped to hand and sleeve. The leaving currents failed to pull him free.
Jensen kept his eyes on the Captain. Hoping to see the Captains face turn from under the
water and give some form of direction.
“What do I do?” He asked the Captain.
The ship lurched and turned, bringing the officers and lower crew back into the room and
hiding the Captain.
After some time, the sounds of the water became the sounds of his hometown and while
still holding tight, he shut his eyes. He tried to see the docks where small boats knocked softly
over the smooth lake and just as the pattering of rain washed over the small-town voices the
Captain spoke. Using the deep voice of Jensen’s old Lieutenant, the Captain gave his order.

“For those who fight for the King. For Majesty. Do not be the one to let that sun set. Go
down there. Cut free the anchor,” the buoyant body said. “Cut it free.”
“The anchor?” Jensen asked and though it took some time the Captain’s silence
eventually answered. Someone down there had dropped the anchor and now that four-ton hook
dangled down in tides that countered the storm.
The waters swirled around the room and retreated, revealing the gold and red rug. Jensen
couldn’t look long, for the waters came back quick and freed the Captain.
“Where is it?” He asked as the Captain passed him.
Jensen never got an answer and he hesitated for as long as he could before setting out on
his search for passage to the floors below.

Jensen started off lost and things only got worse as he climbed, descended and clung to
the burnt artisan carved halls and red rugs of the floor. The currents carried people, broken
candlesticks, canteens with fresh water, charred pieces of wood, papers holding orders, and
letters from loved ones. Under the water was broken glass and everything else too heavy to float.
The corridors of this floor-like maze meant many corners were dead-end fakes with
broken shard steps making every inch gained a disconcerting guess and when gravity was against
him he would often lose his grip and get swept up by the currents that would drop him off in new
places that looked like the old but he never could tell and when the floor became the redfurnished wall or when the wall would turn into a hard sculptured floor he would climb and
crawl and when he found that the doors he had been leaving open were being shut by the waters
rushing behind him he began to see that he had seen these halls before and that the halls he
walked were taking on the appearance of those he hadn’t and when the waters fell flat to the

wall, when the ship turned in its twist, Jensen learned to leap over the door frames, even the
closed ones as the ground had given way more than once and the drop into the room below was a
terror that came close to drowning him and as time passed he began to believe that he was the
only one alive that was left, that this ship couldn’t last and that it wouldn’t be so bad if the
passage he found led to the storm above the deck.
Often, the ship would collect everything at the lowest hanging section and when the next
tilt came it would crash through the halls in one big wave. Or, when the waters were quick, they
would hit the corners and frames and spray as a mist that forced his eyes shut and after long
enough the closed-eyed images brought to his mind the marble-eyed face of Perseus and though
Perseus tried to show him Solemnity for the labyrinth it was, he could not hear the words that
came from the statues mouth. It couldn’t speak. Not to Jensen. Not on this floor at least.
There was one moment, where the ship was level enough for him to rest. But all he could
do was watch the strange faces pass over the slow-moving waters like a low river moves the
many petals of fall. Each one of them brought to his mind the villain. Whoever it was. The one
who dropped the anchor. The killer. Who must have known what was being done and though
Jensen could not see the villain’s face he knew that he laughed and rejoiced over every
nightmare turn and glass jagged step and that he, the villain, was there, cheering for every saltwater drop coughed out from Jensen’s lungs. The villain became the voice of every ill-omened
creak that shot out from the woods of the ship as they bent to the waters that lured the anchor.
Slowing down. Giving up. He tried talking himself into action, but with no mind of his
own he used the only words that came. Scattered half-remembered phrases, words from an old
Lieutenant.

“Remember and move. You’ll forget all aches and complaints. Don’t dwell over what
doesn’t make you faint. Don’t bother to think about your complaints, not one of them bothers to
think of you.” They were wartime goading’s. Small snippets crafted to keep men marching
despite the danger. Tools for superseding the sane voice that can sometimes exist in the minds
first sent to the front lines.
“If it’s still in me to act, I can act well. Think of the sun and what it would mean to let it
set. What it would mean to not take the next step. If it’s still in—,” the vibrating floorboards
interrupted him. Jensen latched to a broken lantern post jutting from the wall, unsure of what it
meant.
Once the vibrations ended, Jensen realized that the anchor had been reeled in. The halls,
while still moving with the storm, no longer twisted.
“Finally, men who know duty. Knew to take control and take in that anchor.” Jensen said,
“Might not know they’re the last ones left. That this ship is more theirs then mine. That they just
need to take control, if control can still be taken.” He stripped the undershirt from a floating
passerby and tore it into strips.
“The ship is yours. I’m giving you the command you need to get us out from the storm
and away from the enemy ship. I’m to be dropped off in the New World. That’s all I know.
That’s it.”
He pulled the strips tight to curb the bleeding in his feet. “What matters most, is that this
ship does not get taken. Remember. Solemnity was built to represent,” Jensen lost track of the
thought, “if we go down, the world will know. They will know the sun can set. That the night
that comes after, won’t be ours. The eternal day must be kept. The sun will never set so long as

we don’t lose,” he stepped over the crew while snapping his fingers, “the solemnity of the British
horizon.” He finished, trying to hide his contempt.
“Or maybe, you’re all heading to the New World with me? Colonists on a Kings ship? If
I had known, I would’ve helped. I’m with you. How many of you are there?” He asked. Trying
to keep his tone light. Trying not to think of the violence that had him cowering in the corner of
the Officer’s Quarters. “Where do you need me?”
In the center of the hall he noticed a glimmer. An iron clasp. Passage to the lower deck.
“What can I do to help?” He asked as he reached for it.
The crew never answered. The floorboards did with a familiar vibration. Turning Jensen
frantic. He lifted the hatch just before the ship could jolt the currents rapid.

Sour fumes sprang out while waters from the labyrinth poured in. Quickly, he climbed
down the steep wood steps and closed the hatch above him. Sealing the floor from the one above.
Vapors burned his eyes as they adjusted to the dark shapes forming the hall before him. It
was a living cavern. Stalactite, thick enough to hang and sway, liquid enough to grow and form
fell with plodding claps.
Noxious red apples floated over the slow-moving batters alongside protrusions of crew
and animal. His nose told him of rotten meat, ale, grease, dead farmlands and vile mixtures of
every herb and ingredient of the compromised kitchens. The flour-made coagulates were slow
swirling and Jensen’s first step into it brought back his childhood marching. The smell of death
then was nothing compared to the smell of it mixed with the stores of the kitchen.

“Everything outside my control. All complaints. Make no memory of them. They’ve no
memory or concern of me. No excuse. There’s no excuse for those who fail before their body
does.” Jensen said. Using the repetitions to keep his mind from he was walking through.
“When the enemy, pain, weather and sickness are against me. Remember them for what
they are. Distractions. Distractions that won’t remember me once I’m gone. So long as I can
carry on.”
The viscosity of the mixture made it easier for him to stay standing through the tilts of the
ship. Every foot felt planted. Every step, slow until the waters that lured the anchor grabbed hold.
The sound of the waterline slapping the ship outside turned to the sound of boiling water
over flame. The cavern floors and walls began to move, and Jensen fell right in.
Carrot in the stew. Blinded. Unable to breathe. He reached out but every tightened grip
on every perceived surface was only ever sludge between fingers. He fought against the potion as
it thickened. He struggled as the closed-eyed images came back, showing him the floor for what
it was. A rot drought of the witch who stewed. Of the witch he saw. Readying to eat what this
floor could become.
Once or twice he heard the grunt and felt the struggle of another. He felt a hand, the
wooden spoon, but nothing held on this floor, where he could not hear the wicked words that
were said, only the cackle.

A favorable retrieve between the valley of two swells gave Jensen the chance to collect
himself. He wiped a slab of the mixture from his face. He looked for whoever it was that had
been there with him.

Caked in the pale stew of the deck was the shape of a man without any features. The
closest thing to familiar were the eyes but if they contained any emotion, Jensen couldn’t see it.
The cavern, the creature came near and Jensen, immobilized by its approach, did nothing
as he was struck in the stomach. Jensen fell back and was caught by the cavern wall.
“Where’s the Captain?” It said. Voice soft.
It was then the old urge in Jensen resurfaced. He may have been weak, but he wasn’t
weak enough to lose to some concoction incapable of throwing a proper punch. Another blow
came, this one slipped off his back as Jensen reached down, latched his fingers around the shape
of its leg. He yanked the thing right from under it.
“Why didn’t you take us from the storm?” It asked, lying on its back. The question
slowed Jensen, who was aiming to press his foot to the neck of the cauldron creature. Not
knowing if pressing its face into its own creation would kill it, or only serve to make it stronger.
“Who are you?” Jensen asked.
“He was dead when he told me. The waters below. We can’t let it.” His voice was
broken. Before Jensen could ask again, it flung the stew up, into Jensen’s eyes. Then Jensen was
pressed deep enough to where he could feel the deck of the floor against his back.
Fighting for breath, fighting for leverage, the retrieve ended, and the witch stirred the
currents renewed.
They tore and clawed at each other and though he didn’t know how or when, Jensen soon
found he had the upper hand. He strangled its neck from behind as it took him deeper into the
bowels. They came to an abrupt stop when the arm of the creature got caught in the iron ring of a
hatch. Jensen held on, waiting for the rest of the stew to pass. Jensen stood up. He untangled the
arm from the ring. It couldn’t have been a human, but Jensen knew better than to check.

#
In a storm like this the ship that maintained control, maintained the battle and once every
few hours, when the sea allowed for it, the USS Jamestown, secret frigate of the Continental
Navy, fired ten shots on the enemy ship. Jamestown was dead in the water before this miracle
storm came and saved them from Solemnity, that two-hundred cannon monstrosity.
The Captain of Jamestown knew a rebel ship taking down the King's warship would do
more to aid the colonies than any gunpowder redcoat land squabble ever could. It could rally the
other countries; it could inspire France. It could show the world that the seas were no longer
under British control.
Taking the Colony Killer for themselves, letting them surrender, was brought up and
discarded. The Captain knew that the numbers on Solemnity could overwhelm the fifty people
aboard Jamestown. And though it was strange to the Captain that the enemy never tried to fire
back and that they had given up on steering their ship, the Captain of Jamestown only saw it as a
trap. He saw the lure, a ploy to make them think it would be safe to board but the Captain refused
to be tricked and so he ordered Jamestown to fire and to never quit.
The Captain looked up from his map as a lower-deck crewman came into the room and
spoke between ragged breaths.
“Mutiny below. Killed four. In the anchor room. We couldn’t stop him.”
#
“Understand your part. Whether you want it or not.” Jensen’s inner mantras of duty were
the only thing allowing him to continue on. The only thing keeping the visions in his head silent
as he slipped out from the cauldron and into the drum.

On this floor the water was cold and only came up to his ankle. He could take great deep
breaths of air without any of the sick and smoke and death of the floors above. By some miracle,
there was even a lantern, still lit, not far from the hatch. Unlike all the broken lantern posts that
jutted from the walls in the floors above, this one dangled from a hook, built into the ceiling.
He knelt and used the water to clean off the floor above. The soft flame of the candle
flickered in the splashing water.
Under the waterline, the rungs of the massive chain being pulled in echoed the floor like
dull thunder striking the ship. It rippled the water and set off the pain in his feet. Between the
strikes came a rhythmic tapping, from what must be the spool, reeling the anchor.
Every hit rifled his nerves, interrupted his sayings and brought to him open-eyed images
of what he had seen in the floors above.
“Remember what it would mean,” Spoken under the pounding of the drum, “to put this
off. Remember the letter your brother sent. What it would mean to not take the next step.
Remember—.” The drums stopped. A single sob came down the hall.
“Who’s there?” Jensen asked. The floor was silent.
Jensen asked again. Afraid to go forward. He unhooked the lantern. The floor tilted and
the rug's appearance moved down the hall.
He heard it again. The sound of another. Then quiet. Then came the drum.
It rattled his ribs. His grip on the lantern tightened and hand against the wall he moved
on.
The drums made him think of the floors above. It made him think of the villain, the one
who laughed at every glass jagged step, who must know that the storm was easing and that the
waters below no longer cared to grab hold.

Jensen believed the villain was trying to tease the water back up, the anchor the lure, and
if that didn’t work, that four-ton anchor could rip out the floor of a weak enough ship.
Jensen sped up his pace. Every time the anchor pulled the chain tight the ship lurched, he
lost a step and somewhere ahead, the wood of the ship gave off an ill-omened crack.
The closer he got the louder the drum. His heart quickened to match the anger they
whipped up. He tried his mantras but if any words came out, he couldn’t hear them.
He hated those sayings. The mock duty mantras. Like brand to cattle he despised how
well they worked. The way they were used on everyone he knew. Small easy sayings. Right into
the muds those words led his friends. Always being told how fortunate they were. To march and
to fight in the glory of a King’s war.
In the candlelight, just ahead, he saw a man hiding in the wall. Hiding in a crack that had
formed in a pillar somewhere near the center of the ship.
Curled up. He wore the loose jacket of an Officer. His hair, wild. Pants, ragged. The
patches on them spoke of lower-deck labor.
The drums stopped. Jensen came close and asked for a name. Asked him his reason to be
in the wall and for him to come out and help. Jensen couldn’t hear his answer. Then back came
the drums and Jensen lost control.
#
Jamestown cracked. Dark ocean taken. Each of them being led by the waters that lured
the anchor.
#

To hide there now, only helped the villain. After a strain and a snap and the breaking of
lantern glass, Jensen had him out. The loss of the candlelight amidst the assault was just another
slight. He pressed the man, hard into the wall.
“I don’t know why.” The man from the wall cradled his broken arm. “I don’t know why.
He’s down there now.”
Jensen pressed him once more.
“I don’t know anymore. I don’t know anymore. I can’t think. My arm. It wasn’t us. An
Officer did it. He came down here. Wanting to drop the anchor. Wouldn’t stop. Even after we
killed him. He used the names of my kids.” He said, voice sharp. “My own kids. Right in front of
me. He gave me this jacket and he gave me an order.” His good arm reached for the fissure.
Jensen pressed him once more. “It was the water that did it. That brought him down here. He
ordered us to release the anchor. We had to kill him. Then more Officers came. Then violence,
then fire.” He freed himself from Jensen’s grip and crawled back into the wall.
Jensen reached to press him again, but he was interrupted. Broken by a tortured wail.
Jensen covered his ears. One by one they came. Breathless sounds familiar to what Jensen
already knew. Gun-powdered gutturals, from the dreams that fueled his dishonest passage.
Bayoneted baritones of the violence he tried to flee. Torn tenors, Jamestown’s last human heard
plea.
The man in the wall was looking at Jensen. He covered his own ears, using his hand and
shoulder.
Visions silenced. Jensen’s anger stifled and once it passed, the drums no longer held the
power they had.
Trying for soft Jensen spoke. “Help me. Tell me where the anchor room is.”

The man pointed. “Middle of the hall.”
“Come with me.”
The man in the wall turned his head, back into the fissure and Jensen left him.
Jensen found the latch under knee high waters. Jensen tried to lift it, but the water was
too heavy. The anchor dropped, there was a loud crack and for a moment Jensen thought the
main mast had snapped.
The drums started up and Jensen pleaded for the strength to lift it before the next drop of
the anchor could be the one that did it.
He heard movement in the water. Someone behind him. He looked up and saw the spark
of recognition in the eyes of the man from the wall. Without a word the man reached his good
arm in and together the two lifted the hatch open.
It was then the anchor dropped. There was a tilt of the ship and the broken-armed man
slipped and he fell without sound into the dark chamber below.
Jensen called down but he never got an answer. The only thing visible was the top rung
of the ladder. Gripped by fear and with no better idea, he brought them back out, his old
Lieutenants and those mantras. He started them up, as best as he could remember. They all
together, descended the ladder.
“I won’t complain or dwell over any end. If I die, it will be in service of what I believe to
be good. If I can act––.”
the hatch above him slammed shut. Cutting out all light. His grip on the ladder tightened.
“If I drown in the dark, I’ll try and do it well. I’ll be happy to die, so long as it’s not in the
cauldron above. I won’t keep tally of my aches and complaints. I won’t––.”

A sharp commanding voice came up from below. “Stay up there. Don’t come down.
Don’t even try it.”
Jensen could hear him wading through the water.
“Keep clinging to the dead wood. Right where you are.”
Jensen started to move again. The voice down there grew louder. “You haven’t yet. You
have it in you to recoil from the majesty of your own kind. You will not run from mine. Stay up
there.”
“If I am,” He said, trying to ignore the threats below, “if I am to fight some monster
while blind, I’ll, I’ll––”

Jensen interrupted himself, not bothering to finish. That old,

ancient urge came back to the surface. He let go of the ladder and dropped into waters colder
than anything above or below. Waist deep he swung wildly. He cursed and threatened and called
for an answer.
The answer came sharp and right into his shoulder blade. Jensen was stabbed, but not
deep, for the waters that lured now only had one good arm and even that was now weak.
Jensen grabbed the thin wrist. His other hand pulled the broken broom handle out from
his shoulder. He twisted the arm and holding the crown he pressed it down into the water.
“Don’t,” it said with an out of place softness. Lips kissing the water, Jensen pressed, not having
to wonder if this would kill the creature or if it would only serve to make it stronger.


