Every night when the moon shines its rays into my bedroom I think of you because you
are so unbelievably bright. You are so unforgettable in the unique quiet. You are
iridescent but you could never fully comprehend, because when the sun would rise you
would lose your shine. You slowly step away for what seems to be a brighter mass in
this universe. A more important mass that endlessly devalued you. You are everything
in its most true essence. You possess all the greatest gatherings and melancholy
moments in just one of your rays. I wish you knew how much we needed you.
Love, Mama
She delicately folded the letter into a cloth woven envelope and let a tear that was
harnessed in her eye slip down her cheek. Eight months had passed along since that
dark evening. From that time she would soon learn how to live without light in her life.
How to grieve in solitude. How to learn that there will some be a returning bright mass
in her life it just won’t take the shape of her daughter.
The end was nearing of another month of toxic humidity and repetitive games of
checkers. The sun was at its finale for the day leaving a fascinating hue of lilac purple
and warm peaches in the sky. Summer rolled by slower than a winter’s lullaby simply
placid. Amanda had just finished her third round of checkers with her younger sister
Emily when she decided it was best that they part their separate ways for the night. I It
was obvious my Amanda’s premature wrinkles that she had been dealing with an
immense amount of pain. All the wincing and frowning asserting themselves as lines.
The pain was a gift she’d received from the Alps on a family vacation three months
prior. Not even an hour and a half on the blanketed slopes and excruciating pain came
from her lips. A sudden move that stained the snow that was so pristinely white. First
the parents, then other skiers, then the ambulances, followed by four months in a cast
watching reruns of Tom and Jerry all day. Patiently waiting for the pain to pass and the
ability to be active again. In short, she was never able to meet that day of complete
healing. Paralyzation choose her life and there on and after building a concrete exterior
against her passions.
That breezy firefly evening when Amanda and Emily parted ways Amanda realized in a
deep place in herself that she had to stop reaching into a void that’s scooped out to the
bottom of the barrel. There was nothing else to seize. She knew she had lived the best
of her life in series of sleepovers, card games, and trips to Cape with her grandparents.
The belief that time had fleeted her life and a future as satisfying was unpromising was
deep slit in her heart.

A Letter To Pluto

That night when she went to take her medication one, two, three, four, five, eight,
eleven, twenty-two slipped down her throat taking her life with crickets in the
background. It was a shock to all and none secretly hoping they would never meet this
day. Amanda would never feel so hopeless in her life to want it to cease. Wishing that
she'd realize her existence was the very foundation of her households sanity. She was a
peacekeeper and was always witty. The end of her life was the beginning of a bleak
age within her family.
The months to follow were to the tune of china shattering against the egg shell colored
walls and curses where the majority of the words traded between everyone. The
atmosphere was still and congested for months as if time no longer had a control on
their household. If curse words weren’t being thrown then quietness made his
interception. A looming creature ready to grasp the lives of those who were tired and
distraught to continue theirs.
After a tropical storm had its time picking apart their house in the once picturesque
white-picket-fence place they resided Mama discovered a weathered quill. One she
used in her youth for calligraphy practice. She placed it on her study desk and began to
scan the room for paper which she saw on the edge of a shelf next to a window sill. All
at once feelings started bubbling over words scattered took their rightful place on the
paper. She took the time to tell her words of regret words of sorrow words of pleading
that she’d returned even though she knew the inevitable. From that day on she wrote
to her every day and every letter was packaged neatly in an envelope and dropped
promptly to her grave from that day on she wrote to her every day and every letter was
packaged neatly in an envelope and dropped promptly to her grave.
Several years passed of words to her lost daughter. Hands had grown permanently
imprinted by an outline of the quill’s daily position. She knew she might never get over
this pain, the suffering, the deep holes severed into her family's lives, but she knew how
to wade through each wave and keep afloat. She knew that these letters for therapy
that she couldn't afford. Their reason for her breath that day.
The morning air had finally it's toll on her lungs. She could just imagine how decayed
they were constantly battling the pollution and cigarette puffs. It was lying down to
sleep that night she really had come to admire the moon. The way he was always a
companion for her when she had none. She was always grateful that the world left a
light on for her while others were asleep. The quill was lifted out of her broken dresser
drawer, and she began to formulate her last plea to her daughter.


