We thought the apocalypse would begin with nuclear or chemical warfare, terrorism, or
religious fanaticism. We even half-heartedly suggested it might arise from an alien attack. But it
didn’t. It was the result of ordinary people whose daily lives centered on kill or be killed.
After a year of mass shootings, the world fell apart.
Athena blew out the eight candles symbolizing her eightieth birthday. She wondered how
she’d survived into her ninth decade, halfway through the year 2085, when rarely did one make it
past age sixty. Her village was fortunate to have a medic, a young man whose skills kept her and
her village healthier than most, or so she’d heard.
Though Athena held the status of great-grandmother, no one, not even members of her
family, wanted Athena to wake up breathing each morning. An elderly person drained resources.
She still considered herself a useful member of her village, tending crops and livestock,
preparing meals, displaying the flags, readying the ammunition. True, she could no longer act as
lookout; her eyes failed to see into the distance anymore, even with the telescope, but what she
did contribute freed up someone else to keep an eye out for strangers and marauders coming their
way. And, she was there at the start, witnessing the eruption of madness.
“Great Athena,” a ten-year-old child tugged at her pants, “tell us about what it was like
before.”
Athena hesitated, looked off into the distance, and then smiled down at the child. “You
mean before The Protection? When I was a girl?”

“No, what it was like when it happened.”
“Oh, child, you don’t want to hear that again, do you?” While many of Athena’s
memories of the last sixty years had blurred or faded, those first years etched into her brain like
detailed illustrations. She often wished she could forget them but, other times, she wanted to
speak of their horror. Someday, maybe soon, Athena would tell the full story, including how far
the world had gone in the wrong direction.
Everyone knew the story of The Protection, even the children; it was part of the school’s
curriculum. Athena was the only one, at least in her village, who was witness to the truth, who
faced the horror of kill or be killed. That version of the story was buried, along with all those
who had been murdered or cast out.
“I was in college, a school where you went to learn a profession. Mine was going to be
ecology. I wanted to help make the rivers and lakes clean again. But I never got to do that.”
The past rushed up at Athena, despite her having told the story any number of times; it
still caught her by surprise, an unexpected twist in the plot of the last sixty years.
“The Protection began in 2015, though it didn’t have a name then, when there were more
mass shootings in the United States than there were days in the year.
Athena was twenty that year, ready to take the world by storm. Instead, it took her, and
many other people, into a future of lunacy.
One of the children stood and extended his hand, thumb up, first finger pointed out,
mimicking a gun. “Ka-pow, ka-pow, ka-pow.” He rotated from one child to the next, aiming his

3

pretend pistol at their heads. Two of the adults laughed at his antics, but everyone else ignored
him.
Athena continued. “At first the shootings were horrifying but, after a while, we got used
to them. It was simply the way things were. The next year, there were even more mass shootings,
mostly at schools and movie theaters.”
“Did you get to do any mass shootings?” a five-year-old girl asked Athena.
“No, child,” Athena replied, not surprised by the question. Somehow, over the years, the
shootings had become romanticized, as if it were an honor to be a part of them. Athena, like
many, had reacted in horror at the initial shootings, and she’d been dismayed, then distraught,
when the country’s solution to the killings was to arm its citizens.
Athena sat silently, recalling a long ago conversation.
“Athena,” her parents phoned and said. “We think you should get a gun.”
“A gun? Are you crazy? I don’t want a gun.”
“We each bought one,” her parents admitted. “And you need to protect yourself.”
“Mom, Dad, studies show that owning a gun doesn’t protect you. By the time you get it
out, it’s too late. I can’t believe you have guns. Are they loaded?”
The silence on the other end affirmed the answer. Athena’s stomach clenched and her
temples tensed. Someone would get hurt. In the end, it was her dad.
Athena snapped out the reverie and continued her story to the children.

4

“Every year, there were more shootings. More people bought guns and carried them
everywhere. Some people called the United States the Wild West, which was a time in history
when people settled things with guns.”
A boy raised his hand, waving it back and forth to get Athena’s attention. “Just like we
do now,” he blurted.
“Yes,” Athena sighed. “Just like we do now.”
“The mass shootings continued, and a new kind of shooting started. People who were
mad at someone, or who didn’t get what they wanted, shot the person they thought was
responsible. More people bought guns to protect themselves.”
A second child waved her hand in the air. “That’s when we started calling it The
Protection, right?”
Athena managed a weak smile.
The Protection. Athena remembered people petitioning the government, lining the street
in protest, and writing letter after letter to demand gun control, to make guns less accessible, not
more. But those people were often gunned down themselves until they became too afraid to
speak up at all. Athena agreed with them, but held back, not wanting to get involved.
Eventually, the news stopped reporting daily shootings; no day was without them.
Schools surrounded themselves with double, bullet-proofed glass entries, admitting only students
and staff; parents no longer set foot in their child’s school building. Industry was next, closing
itself to all but employees. Business and sales meetings took place virtually, as did most
shopping.

5

The entire United States population avoided face-to-face involvement as much as
possible.
“After a while,” Athena continued, “everyone had a gun. It was the easiest way to settle
an argument or to get rid of a person you didn’t like.”
“Great Athena, did you ever get to kill someone?”
Athena flinched at the question. Get to? She wanted to take the children by their
shoulders, stare into their eyes and tell them killing was not a privilege, but a crime. Instead,
Athena only shook her head.
“How come you didn’t kill the person who killed your dad?”
“I wasn’t there,” Athena replied, not wanted to elaborate. Even now, all these years later,
she shivered from the memory. “My father ran a construction company and some of the materials
for a house he was building didn’t come in on time, so my father met the home owners at the
house to talk about it.”
The children whispered among themselves. This section of the story bored them.
“We know that part already. The people got mad and shot your dad. Tell us about when
the fires started.”
Athena closed her eyes, reliving the phone call from her mother that her dad had been
killed. No one was arrested; a single killing was considered an agitated dispute, nothing with
which to involve the police. A friend’s mother, a physician was shot because she informed a
patient of their terminal illness. Athena was walking alongside her best friend when the friend’s
dog pooped in someone’s yard; the friend had a bag in her hand, ready to clean up.

6

“Hey,” a man came roaring out of a house. “Your dog is shitting in my yard.”
“I’m cleaning it up now,” her best friend said, stooping to do so as she spoke.
“You won’t be doing it again.” Four shots rang out, three for her friend and one for the
dog. If Athena bent to check her friend, the next shot would be for her, so Athena slinked away.
She held in the tears until she was home.
Athena breathed deeply, opened her eyes, and continued her story. “People got angrier
and angrier. In addition to shooting, sometimes shooting crowds of people they didn’t even
know, they started burning down places where they’d had a bad experience, or churches they
didn’t like.”
Women centered health clinics were the first to be torched. Synagogues and mosques
went next, along with churches with predominately non-white members. In the years that
followed, government buildings were burned, then businesses that appeared too successful.
University campuses went up in flames.
“People were afraid to go out, especially to places that were considered dangerous, like
schools and factories. No one would work in those places, so it became harder to get food,
clothing, and things you needed for daily living. It spread to other parts of the world. Europe fell
to religious fanatics with a well-armed militia. Asia closed its doors and we still don’t know
what’s happening in that part of the world.”
“But you can’t live without guns, right Athena?”
“That’s the way we think now, but a long time ago, people thought they could. They
knew they could.”

7

The children laughed at the absurdity.
The laughter echoed in Athena’s ears, sounding, for a moment, like the retort from
automatic weapons or explosions from bombs. It echoed the screams of students and teachers
trapped in the burning science building where Athena’s boyfriend died. Athena raced home that
day, but for her, the screams continued in nightmares and flashbacks.
After the schools closed, slamming their doors shut in fear, the country came to a
standstill. People hunkered down in their homes, terrified to go anywhere. Truckers, easy targets
for highway pirates, refused to haul goods. For a while, the army attempted to quell the disorder,
but, in the end, they became the disorder, following no one’s orders, raiding what they required
for their own survival.
After a decade, people re-banded into small groups, claiming territory. They posted
guards, often erected some kind of barrier, and stole or grew food. At the time, Athena lived with
her husband in an apartment building, a ten-story structure with attack dogs, a metal surround,
and an alarm system.
The groups became villages, separated along ethnic and racial lines. Muslim and
Hispanic villages suffered frequent attacks; though not necessarily outnumbered, they were
outgunned by those with white skin and Christian values. People who didn’t meet the white
Christian qualification were cast out, shuttled off to reservations in the less inhabitable parts of
the country. Anyone could be cast out, regardless of race or religion, if they went against what
was considered normal.
“Athena, did you know anybody who was cast out?”

8

Athena stared into the child’s eyes, wondering how to answer. Jaw tense, Athena squared
her shoulders. For all these years, when asked, she offered a negative response to the question.
Admitting friendship with anyone cast out was akin to being a victim yourself. But Athena was
old now, and not afraid of what came next.
“Yes, I did. By the time we began casting people out, I’d lost touch with anyone who fit
the category, and,” Athena closed her eyes, inhaled deeply, still catching a whiff of the blownout candles, “I wish I hadn’t. They suffered for no reason other than being who they were born to
be.” She opened her eyes.
“Mother!” Athena’s daughter shrilled. “Shut-up.”
“It was wrong.” Athena looked hard into the eyes of each of the children. “We cleansed
women who loved other women, men who loved other men; we cleansed people who couldn’t
walk or couldn’t think. There were people who were cleansed because they weighed too much or
couldn’t see or couldn’t hear. And it was wrong, all of it.”
The room’s silence seemed the loudest sound Athena had ever heard. To her, the birds
had ceased singing, the wind stopped blowing. But she would speak, then she would die. Perhaps
one child, just one, would take her words inside themselves and realize how different the world
could be and maybe that child, or that child’s son or daughter, would be the one to refashion the
way the world thought.
“I knew people like all of those. I knew people who weren’t Christian or white. Some
were my friends; some were people I went to school with or worked with or who simply lived
near me. They weren’t bad or evil people, any more than you or me. All people simply wanted to
live their lives in peace.”

9

Athena raised her gaze to the adults. “No one should be sent away or isolated. No one.”
Athena took a shuddering breath and a tear dripped hot on her face. Her daughter’s
countenance displayed disgust and horror. Athena looked again at the children. “One of you has
to grow up and change all this. We’re monsters, all of us, and we need to be turned back into
human beings.”
She stood. “I’ll wait on the front porch.”
Someone would call the police. Within the hour, Athena would be on her way north,
likely to what had been the state of Maine. There, her clothes would be taken and she’d be left by
the side of the road. Perhaps others who were cast out would find her and take her in. Perhaps
she would die within a day. But perhaps, just perhaps, a child would take her words to heart,
would toss them back and forth until adulthood, and would act on them. And no one would need
protection.
The End


