THE MOMENT RUTH AND HER HUSBAND, DAVID ARRIVED AT THE ART DEPARTMENT party,
she began to wish that they had stayed home after all. The back of her throat felt scratchy and her
nose was still raw and sore from the cold she had picked up, and she sneezed occasionally. She
felt clumsy all over. She had worn the wrong dress; it was too tight around her arms. Pregnancy
had bloated her whole body—her face, her ankles—even her fingers were puffy. Her skin felt too
small.
David helped her as she shrugged heavily out of her bulky black wool coat. Then they
slipped through the crowd, between conversations and under curtains of smoke to a back room
where coats lay in mounds, hiding what might be a day bed and some easy chairs. He threw
theirs on top of a heap, and she hoped they would be able to find them again. She followed him
back out to the front of the house.
David's black hair was freshly washed, and it floated back as he walked ahead of her. She
felt a sudden stabbing attraction to him, and she reached for his hand, but just managed to brush
his fingertips. He turned and smiled at her. His eyes were a bold green this evening. Their color

varied in shades of hazels, green, and greys, depending on his mood or the lighting. They had
once lived on the edge of the Mediterranean Sea, and she was surprised to find that some days it
was the clearest blue and some days a rocky grey. She finally figured out that the sea reflected
the sky and so was always changing. David's eyes were like that.
The party was in honor of some visiting artist, and Ruth hadn't told David that she didn’t
want to come. She liked parties, at least she liked vegetarian hippie parties, the kind where
people sat around on the floor or on cushions and talked easily, and laughed. If anyone wanted to
smoke they went outside and there were candles—a lot, to make it friendly, and she could wear
whatever she wanted without feeling like a pumpkin. She was sure that nobody else at this party
was pregnant.
Here everyone was standing. Ruth looked for someplace to sit. She glanced at the sofa
and the two easy chairs placed tastefully around a low wooden table.
"You want to sit down Ruth?" David steered her by the elbow toward one of the chairs. A
woman came toward them, smiling at David, and he let go of Ruth's arm.
The woman wore a black sleeveless dress with a short tight skirt. Her straight hair was
cut above her ear on one side of her face, then slanted down, almost to her shoulder on the other
side. Her dark hair and her dark dress were sharp against her pale skin and Ruth thought she
must keep herself out of the sun.
"David. I'm so glad you could come. Listen, you have to meet Paul." And she pulled him
by the arm toward a cluster of people. The woman didn't look at Ruth, but David turned back and
motioned for her to follow. Ruth shook her head and indicated the sofa. David shrugged an
apology as he allowed the woman to lead him across the room.
Ruth made her way to the sofa and sat down. She wondered if David felt so out of place

Tribute / 3
when they went to the parties of English grad students, who also smoked, but not as much as the
art students, and at least they went outside to do it. She looked around. Most of those people that
she recognized by name were painters. She knew some of the others by sight but had never been
introduced, although David seemed to be acquainted with most of them. They all seemed unique
in the same way, dressed in black with sophisticated haircuts and avant-garde jewelry and
seemed pretty comfortable in this setting, in these costumes. Ruth looked down at her dress in
earth tones—dusty colors, with a high bodice that even had a ruffle. She felt countrified.
She looked up and caught Tristan's eye. He smiled at her from across the room. Tristan
was a painter like David, though his recent stuff didn't have too much paint on it. He prowled the
junkyards for scraps of furniture and old cast iron and wire and shoes. Ruth liked his work. At
his opening last month there was a stairway-shaped piece made from dresser drawers and chair
backs and railroad spikes. The wood was roughly stripped by wind and weather and so had a
maritime feel to it. Her favorite that night had been a sculpture shaped like a harp without
strings. It was immense—taller than David even, and delicately constructed. She felt it must be
hollow, and she wanted to bang on it like a drum to hear the sound it would make. He had pasted
pages all over the surface. She read a few snatches and discovered the words were from "The
Wasteland."
She was reading parts of it aloud to David when Tristan sauntered over.
"What do you think?" Tristan indicated the sculpture with his drink, red wine in a clear,
plastic cup.
"I love it," said Ruth. "The more I look at it the more I find. Listen to this part," she
turned to David, reading.
"The change of Philomel, by the barbarous king

So rudely forced; yet there the nightingale

Tribute / 4

Filled all but the desert with the inviolable voice
And still she cried, and still the world pursues,
‘Jug Jug’ to dirty ears.
And other withered stumps of time. . . "
David laughed. "And Tristan is the 'barbarous king?'"
"Come on, don't you know your mythology?" And she told him how Tiresias raped his
sister-in-law, Philomel, then cut out her tongue so she couldn't tell his wife—her sister. But she
found out anyway, and the two women cut up his kids and served them to him for dinner.
"Nice folks, all of them," said David. "If she couldn’t talk, how did the sister find out?"
"Philomel wove a tapestry that told the whole story. I presented a paper on this one
semester. Philomel was an artist too—Hey," she interrupted herself, "a stringless harp and
tongueless Philomel. I get it now. Is that what you meant?" she looked at Tristan, pleased that
she had seen the connection.
"Sure” Tristan sipped his wine and winked at David. “How astute.”
“So it's about feeling inarticulate?” Ruth asked. “I can't say I ever understood that entire
poem, but I know a big part of it—for me anyway—is about women being silenced, by force or
circumstance or whatever." Her words grew louder as she grew more excited. "And Philomel had
to find another way to communicate since she was mute, and so she must weave her story into a
tapestry—” Ruth’s hands made weaving motions in the air as she got more animated— “and this
harp had to find another way to sing, so it has Elliot pasted all over it.” She turned back to
Tristan. “Is that right?"
"Exactly. I'm so glad someone understands this piece."

Tribute / 5

"But where does the Prufrock fit in?"
"The what?"

"The Prufrock. You have ‘The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock’ pasted all over down
here." She pointed to the base of the sculpture.
"What do you think it means?" he asked her.
David snorted and Tristan laughed.
"What's funny?" asked Ruth.
"Can't you tell he's bullshitting you?" asked David, laughing now too.
Ruth quickly looked back at Tristan. "No," she said. "He wouldn't."
"Yes," said David. "He would. He told me last week that he used this book because he
failed a Lit class in college. He wants to make another one out of a physics book."
"Tristan." Ruth shook her head.
"Oh don't feel bad," said David. "We all do it. We paint something and everybody's got to
find some grand meaning in it. Nobody believes you if you say 'I made this part green because I
ran out of brown paint.' They want to think everything's symbolic."
"Besides," said Tristan, "if you found all that meaning in my piece it must be there,
whether I planned it or not."
"I can't believe it," said Ruth. "You failed Lit?"
***
RUTH LOOKED AROUND FOR DAVID NOW. HE WAS BEHIND HER IN A CORNER, STILL talking
with the slant-haired woman. He laughed at something she said and she reached up and flicked a
piece of lint off of his shoulder.
Ruth turned back around and looked at her hands in her lap, and Tristan came over and

Tribute / 6
sat down beside her. Every time she saw Tristan he wore a different pair of wire-rimmed glasses.
Tonight's were round and tiny, sort of exaggerated John Lennon. He had told her once that he
bought old glasses in antique shops and had his prescription put in them. His hair looked just
slightly wind ruffled. It was thinning a bit, and made him look older than he was, ever so slightly
professorial. He had on a bulky grey sweater with two wine-colored stripes and random speckles
in between them.
"Hey Ruth, how's the little nipper?"
She put her hand on her belly. "It's pretty active. Always stepping on my kidneys or
bladder or something."
"Oh that's just wonderful." He was beaming at her, his face just slightly flushed with the
wine and the warmth of the party.
Ruth laughed. “I’m perfectly aware of the miracle that’s taking place in my body, but can
I just complain for a minute? Look at my hands.” She held them out for Tristan to see. Her
wedding ring was cutting into her finger. “They look like sausages.”
Tristan took her hand and patted it. “ Oh, you’ll be back to your svelte self in a few
months.” He gave her hand a squeeze. “And where’s Ya tonight?” Ruth always had their fiveyear-old, Ya, in tow when she stopped by the grad student studio, an old house on the east end of
Campus. Ya liked Tristan’s studio best, which was next door to David’s. Tristan’s room was
filled with antique toys and shoes and odd blocks of wood. He had mounted insects—a preying
mantis and a Madagascar hissing cockroach—in frames on the wall. A hammock was slung
across a corner of the room, and Tristan was good natured about letting Ya climb in the
hammock and chat with him while he painted.
“He’s at my mom’s. Ya is easily bored with stuff like this.” Ruth swept her hand in front

Tribute / 7
of her to indicate the cocktail conversations all around. “Who's that with David?" She kept
smiling and did not turn around. She could hear David in soft conversation behind her, though
she couldn’t hear what he was saying.
Tristan looked over his shoulder. "Oh that's Loren. This is her house. Didn't you meet
her?"
"Almost," she said. "But when she breezed by and grabbed David he sort of forgot to
introduce us."
"Don't worry about her. She's like that,"
Ruth wanted to change the subject. "Nice sweater."
"You like it?" he asked. "I just finished it."
"You knitted that? I didn't know you could knit. It's really nice."
"Thank you. I'm pretty pleased with it."
"Did you use a pattern?"
"No. I get dyslexic when I try to read those patterns. My mind doesn't work that way. I
don't see how anyone could knit by looking in a book. You knit too, don't you?"
"A little. I've been knitting booties again for this baby. I had some I knitted for Ya, but I
can’t find them. I do use a pattern." Ruth laughed. "In fact I taught myself to knit from one of
those books."
"You're kidding. My grandmother taught me. God, she was knitting all the time. I don't
think her kids ever wore a sweater that she didn't knit herself. I still have a pair of slippers she
felted for me when I was a kid. They don't fit anymore, but I still keep them."
Tristan went on to tell Ruth stories about his grandmother, how she raised a hog in her
basement when Holland was occupied during the war. When she couldn't get wool to knit socks,

Tribute / 8

she knitted them out of newspaper.
"Newspaper? How in the world did she do that?"

"I don't know. She spun it somehow, and knitted it. I suppose she had to do stuff like that.
She had nine kids—Hi, David."
Ruth looked up. David was handing her a glass and she reached for it. "Thanks," she said,
and took a sip. "What is this?"
"I don't know," said David. "Loren didn't seem to have anything without alcohol on the
refreshment table—so I raided the refrigerator. It was this stuff or water."
"It tastes like Hawaiian Punch."
Tristan snorted. "Hawaiian Punch? Loren has Hawaiian Punch in her fridge?"
"Fruit Juicy." She smiled.
The three of them talked together for a long while and laughed irreverently about artsy
affectations until Loren came up and began gushing about Tristan's show. She still didn't appear
to notice Ruth, but when she led Tristan away to meet the famous Paul, David remained at Ruth's
side and she was sorry that she had felt so neglected before.
Later when David went back to get their coats Ruth found Tristan talking to Loren and
Paul and another man with short brown hair bleached white at the edges.
"What was her name?" she asked Tristan quietly during a lull in the conversation.
He sipped his drink. "What was whose name?"
"Your grandmother."
"Oh, her. Liesbeth."
"Leesbet," she repeated slowly, trying to get the accent right.
***

Tribute / 9
AFTER THE PARTY THEY STOPPED AT RUTH’S MOM’S TO PICK UP YA. David carried the
sleeping boy out of the dark house and together they buckled him into the child seat in back.
Ruth put her hand on his cheek and smoothed his hair, and he pursed his little lips. She got in the
front seat and looked back at him, feeling content. Now she felt the baby moving gently, turning
over.
“Baby's moving," she said sleepily.
"Let me feel." David reached across through the dark and laid his hand on her belly.
"I don't feel it," he said.
"Press harder. Right here." And she guided his hand to where the tiny elbow rippled
across her belly from the inside.
"I felt it that time." He smiled out at the dark road.
Ruth leaned back into the bucket seat, closed her eyes and rested her head. She felt soft
and luminous and round. Even her cold felt better. "It's funny how fast my moods change." She
was thinking about David’s eyes and the sea again.
"Mmmmn," said David, still smiling.
Ruth began to think about knitting newspaper. She imagined ripping it into strips and
twisting it. You would have to crumple it first, she thought, to soften it. Then it would be more
like fabric. Maybe she really could do it. She wished she had asked Tristan how long a
newspaper sock would last. Did his aunts and uncles wear holes in them, and did Liesbeth then
darn them with more paper?
Now she wanted to try it herself, and she saw in her mind a series that she wanted to
make and put on the wall in honor of Tristan's grandmother. The first piece would be a square of
knitted newspaper, like Ruth used to practice when she was learning to knit. The second would

Tribute / 10
be a flat piece knitted in the shape of a sock. The third, the same, only knitted with Sunday
morning funny papers, and the fourth, an actual three-dimensional sock that someone could
wear.
Then she thought that the first three were dumb, and that she'd seen too many pretentious
art shows. Maybe she should just make the sock. But she decided to try the others while she was
learning to use paper. If they looked good she could call them a series, and if not, she didn't have
to show them to anybody. She liked the idea of recording the process of learning, so she might as
well try it.
Ruth realized that they were almost home, and she was no longer sleepy. She wanted to
move so she opened her eyes and stretched.
"David," she said. "I've just thought of a piece I want to make."
"Yeah?" He kept his eyes on the empty highway.
"Yeah. Tristan told me this story about his grandmother. She used to knit socks out of
newspaper."
"Why would anybody want to do that?"
"It was during the war. I guess she couldn't get regular yarn."
"You mean she wore them?"
"I think her whole family wore them."
David snorted. "I'd rather go barefoot."
"In the snow?" Ruth asked. "I think it's beautiful that she did whatever she had to do to
keep her family warm. She was a survivor."
David rolled his eyes.
"Well you can make fun. I'm going to try it."

Tribute / 11

"Try what?"
"I'm going to knit a sock out of newspaper."

He looked at her, and then back at the road. "Hmmn, that's an idea." He turned to her and
smiled. She could tell that he was suddenly interested, and she smiled back.
"What a great idea, Ruth." He looked back at the road, still smiling. A car turned toward
them and flashed its high beams. The lights lit up David's face and he shielded his eyes with one
hand and clicked off his own brights. "If you knit a sock," he said, "I'll use it in a piece."
"What?" Her eyes still smarted from the sudden light. When the spots cleared from her
vision she said quietly, "It'll be my piece if I make it. I was thinking of a series."
"You want to make a piece?" he asked. "Where would you show it? You can't get into a
gallery with one piece."
"That wasn't really the point." She stared out the window into the night, then turned to
him. "Why can't I make a piece of art if I want to? Why can't I hang it on my own walls? And if I
do it will be for me and for Liesbeth. Not for you."
"Who's Liesbeth?" he asked, but she didn't answer.
***
THE NEXT DAY WAS SUNDAY, AND DAVID WAS PAINTING IN HIS STUDIO IN THE attic. He
had three weeks to get ready for his next show and he was trying to finish up a couple of
paintings. Sunday was supposed to be their family day, but they each had their separate concerns.
Ya was building a spaceship with his Lincoln Logs. He was getting frustrated as it kept crashing
to the floor when he got to the wings. Ruth was trying to finish a book she was reading to review
for the school’s journal, but gave up when Ya kept whining. She would encourage him, but then
lose her place. Ruth looked at the clock. It was way past time for his nap, and she was tired of

Tribute / 12
that book anyway. She sang Ya to sleep and then sat down to knit on the hat she was making for
the baby.
After knitting a few rows she realized that she was thinking again of the newspaper
socks. She set aside the hat and got some papers from the recycling bin. When David came down
later to get something to eat she was sitting cross-legged on the living room floor next to a pile of
strips of newspaper. She had one long knitting needle anchored under her right arm while she
slowly twisted a strip of paper. She pulled too hard and it broke off in her fingers. Three or four
stitches were looped loosely over the needle and she picked up another strip of paper and began
twisting it to the broken strand.
"What are you doing?" asked David.
"Casting on," she said. She did not look up.
She worked steadily until she felt a headache coming on. She had knitted two rows and
her fingers were sore, and black from the ink on the paper. The knitting itself was lumpy and
stiff, like homespun yarn when it's knitted on needles that are too small. It was disappointing—
not at all like she imagined. She put it aside and went into the bedroom. Ya was up from his nap
and David was showing him a book of Chagall prints. They looked up from the bed.
"Did you make it?" he asked. "Let me see."
"Well, I did a couple of rows. It's out in the living room. I'm just trying to figure out how
she did it." She showed him her hands. "I didn't think about the ink."
David got up off the bed and he and Ya went to the living room. "I like it," he called to
her. "It's got a neat texture."
A few days later she found David sitting in the living room. He had her newspaper
knitting in one hand and the baby's hat in the other.

"When are you going to finish this?" he asked.

Tribute / 13

"I don't know," she said. "I got kind of discouraged. It isn't nearly as easy as I'd imagined.
And I have a lot to do to get ready for the baby. I still want to try it though."
"Could you teach me to knit?" David looked up at her like a little boy.
"Why? Are you going to steal my idea?"
"Sure." He smiled. "It's a great idea."
"But I want to do it." Ruth heard a whining quality in her voice and she felt suddenly
ashamed to talk like that in Ya’s presence, and irrationally, in the baby's presence too, as if the
baby could hear her from the womb and understand not her words, but her tone.
"So we'll both do it," he said. "They won't be the same."
No, they won't be, she thought. Yours will be art because you’re an artist. If I make one
they will say I copied my husband's work. Who will believe that it was my idea, even if I do it
first?
"Will you teach me?"
"Here's the book I learned from." She pulled it from the shelf and tossed it at him. He
flinched as he caught it and she walked out of the room.
***
THE NEXT WEDNESDAY RUTH PICKED YA UP FROM DAYCARE AND FOUND DAVID WITH THE
book propped up on the kitchen table. He was hunched over in concentration. The knitting
needles looked absurdly delicate in his heavy hands. He was wrapping green yarn around the
needle so tightly that he couldn't pull the old stitch over it.
She laughed at him. "David. Relax," she said. "Your body's too tight and your stitches are
too tight. You're going to bend my needles pulling the yarn like that."

He straightened up and rubbed the back of his neck. "I keep messing up."

Tribute / 14

"For starters, you could use some bigger needles. Those are too small to learn on."
She got out a thicker pair of needles and sat down next to him. She showed him how to
knit and how to purl. She explained that knitting patterns were just different sequences of those
two basic stitches. With her there to demonstrate and correct him he picked it up very quickly.
Soon he had produced a little knitted rectangle.
"Good," she said. "Now you need to work on keeping the tension of the yarn even. Knit
ninety-nine more of these and you can make an afghan."
"Forget the afghan. Will you show me how to make a sock?"
"There's a pattern for socks in the book." Ruth braced her legs to lever herself up from the
sofa.
After that he picked up where she left off in the science of knitting paper fibers. His latest
two paintings remained unfinished, and Ruth missed the fresh paint smell when she came home.
After putting Ya to bed they spent the evenings knitting together, she on a new sweater for the
baby, and he on the sock.
He had given up on using newspaper. He said it had too much acid and would yellow and
fall apart. Instead he had torn out pages from a Bible. She resented that at first. She had always
intended to read the Bible cover to cover, but he pointed out that she wasn’t even religious, and
they had two or three other copies around somewhere.
"That’s not the point,” she said. “It doesn't seem right.” Just because she wasn’t a
believer didn’t mean she couldn’t take sacred texts seriously. It would be another thing, she
thought, if he was doing this to honor Liesbeth.
The thin pages made a much finer, more delicate fiber to work with. And when his sock

began to take form it had much more fluidity than her first sample.

Tribute / 15

Ruth gradually got over resenting the project and even suggested that he twist a cotton
thread along with the paper to give it strength. It was a good idea and cut down on breakage.
The sock itself was an elephantine thing, out of a Dr. Seuss book. It was the exaggerated,
stylized type that people hang up at Christmas, and it was massive. Ruth thought that David was
right: It was nothing like the sock that she would have made. But in spite of herself, she began to
like it. There was a sweetness about him when he sat hunched over the sock. He looked childlike
and vulnerable. And when he finished it two days before his show opened, she celebrated with
him.
"What should I call it?" he wanted to know.
"I don't know. What about … 'Survival'?"
David rolled his eyes.
"Too corny?"
"Too something."
In the end he put it up without a title. "Let people make their own," he said.
***
FOR THE OPENING SHE MADE BREAD AND CUT UP MELON AND PEARS AND CHEESE. She
made a punch and there was apple cider too. The gallery provided a few bottles of wine, but she
always wanted at least a little bit of a spread. She fussed with the refreshment table for a while,
then walked around talking to people. They had invited a lot of her friends who were only
connected to the art crowd through her and David. She always felt freer to have an opinion about
a painting when there were other people around who weren't looking at the art through an MFA.
She loved seeing David's paintings displayed in a proper gallery. Of course she had seen

Tribute / 16
them all at home, had seen them as they were evolving. But they always looked like different
paintings when they were illuminated and hung up on a white wall. There was so much space
here. In David's studio you couldn't just look at a painting—there was such a jumble of tubes of
oil colors and photographs and brushes and crumpled paper towels, all claiming your attention.
At one point she walked alone around the gallery, sipping cider and pausing at each
painting. As always it was as if she were seeing the work for the first time and she kept finding
things she hadn't noticed before. She paused in front of one of his latest pieces. It was the selfportrait he had just finished a few days before, as soon as the sock was done. She had seen it, had
helped him carry it in here. Dancing along the outer edges were scribbles, painted lightly in
black. But now she saw that what she had thought was random embellishment was the outline of
the sock.
The sock was painted over and over, surrounding and celebrating David's figure. And
suddenly Ruth was angry. David had no connection with the sock, not with what it was really
about. She remembered how he was excited by the idea, but made fun of the story behind it.
She turned and looked across the gallery at the sock. At the moment, no one was looking
at it, and almost without realizing it, she crossed the room and stood in front of it. She wanted to
pull it off the wall and run outside with it. It didn't belong here. It belonged to her. She thought
about holding a match under it. It would catch slowly, then burn fast and thoroughly, leaving
smoke and a blackened place on the wall. People would cry out in startled tones, dropping their
glasses. Someone would take off his jacket and beat at the flame.
She held her fists close to her sides. David and Loren came up and stood next to her,
gazing at the sock.
"I love this piece," said Loren. "Maybe I'll buy it," she teased. They stood in silence,

Loren looking at the sock and David watching Loren.

Tribute / 17

"It's wonderful, just wonderful," she said finally. "What's it about?"
"I'm not sure." David turned to Ruth and smiled at her for a long moment. His eyes were
a clear green. "What's it about, Ruth?" he asked.
END


