I am a student of Allen High School. Our school colors are blue and
yellow and our mascot is a canary. Can you imagine? Who the has a
canary as a mascot? Our rivals are the Dieruff Huskies, and at every
sporting event, our opponents just make posters of a dog with a canary in
its mouth getting mauled.
In the Stone Ages, our rivals were the Liberty Hurricanes, and the
only thing that can fly through a hurricane is a canary. The canary was a
fine mascot from 1910-1958, but why not change the mascot in 1959
when our rivals became the “Huskies?”

Our mascot should be the Bears

or Lions or T-Rexes or Fleas or even the Heart Worms.
My given name is James, but my friends call me Jim. When my
relatives call me James, it makes me feel like I am a chauffer - I do not
like the idea of being a limousine driver. I don’t mean to diminish
chauffer drivers should you have one in your family, but James is not my
preference.
My classes are English, Math, Biology, Phys-Ed, History, German,

and my Printing Class. Of all my classes, I enjoy English and History,
but I LOVE my Printing Class. I enjoy the process of creation: from
idea, concept, doodling, creating and editing until the final product. The
creation is only real when I see it come out of the printer in black and
white or in color.
It reminds me of Helen in English Class. She is Filipina, always
smiling, friendly, and loves taking pictures. She takes selfies of her
fashion, food, places traveled and then posts them on Facebook. It is
almost as if the event did not happen until she posts them on the social
media. That is how I feel about my Printing Shop projects.
Truth be told, all the great revolutions, movements and inventions
come from ideas. Thanks to the Gutenberg Press,
and the modern printers of today, ideas have been able to be spread
around the world. Ideas created books, and books have changed the world
via the printing press. For me, working the presses gives me a sense of
purpose and power.
CHAPTER 2
Entering Print Shop, the slight burning smell of toner, plastic,
Styrofoam, and the floor wax soothes me. It only smells better when Mr.

Press is stewing a pot of coffee in his back office. The room is full of
posters, banners, school colors, computers, drafting desks in the back of
class are the 3-D printers, the Laminating Machine and an Industrial
Printer.
Printing Class is 5th period, and my “Zoo Period” is period 6. My
buddy Richie and I always sit together during lunch period, or as we call
it, Zoo Period. Just as the Zoo is broken up by different categories of
animals from the Congo, African Plains, World of Reptiles, World of
Birds, House of Big Cats, so is the cafeteria table groupings made by
differing cliques.
Our Canary High School cafeteria is divided into the following
sections: Athletes (Jocks) and Cheerleaders, Red Necks, the Heavy
Metal Crew, Emo/Goths, the Fashionistas, Band Kids, Video Gamers,
Drama Club and the Vo-Tech students. People watching is the best part of
the lunch period. Richie and I are part of the Basic Kid Crew which
would be the equivalent of the Mouse House at the Philadelphia Zoo.
Richie grew up in Paterson before moving to Allentown. He grew up
in a rough neighborhood, and he is tough. I am usually able to talk myself
out of fights, but if I need a body guard, Richie has my back. I am a
decent communicator, and I am able to talk myself out of conflicts most

of the time. Fellow students know Richie is my buddy, and think twice
before throwing punches at me for fear of Richie beat down.
In a way, school is just like the television reality survival show,
“Naked and Afraid,” but without the naked part. Richie is part of a rock
band. He plays bass. The band is trying to think of a name of a band. He
asks me to think of some names and I tell him I will get back to him.
I have several chores around the house, such as taking out the trash,
cleaning the dinner dishes, mowing the lawn, taking our English Setter
dog, Mandy, for walks, and cleaning up the dog poo in the back yard.
My sister Jody, four years younger than me, comes out and starts
making fun of me, “Jim cleans the dog doo! Jim cleans the dog doo!” I
warn my sister, “If you say that one more time, I will fling the dog doo at
you!” Of course my bratty sister says it again, and I fling the doggie doo
way, not really wanting to hit her with the scat, but close enough to scare
her. The ca-ca hits her on the left cheek! She runs in the house screaming
bloody murder. It is a glorious day!
CHAPTER 3
Sitting in the corner is the Homecoming Committee discussing the
theme as it being the Roaring 20’s, the Rock-n-Roll 50’s, the Flower

Power of the 1960’s or Disco and the 1970’s. My preference is the “I
Don’t Really Care” theme, because I am not going to the Homecoming
Dance. I love the ladies, but I act clusty around them.
The upper classmen have the pick of the best girls. They seem to get
the hottest girls. My Uncle tells me, many of these girls who marry the
“upper classman,” find out later in life she has made a mistake, and would
have done better marrying a loser who often is a late bloomer and
becomes a doctor, attorney or C.E.O. Many high school princesses often
end up wearing shiny tiaras in their future trailer park kingdoms. Why
does this give me a sense of satisfaction?
I did attempt to date a young woman I crushed on name Elisabeth.
The conversations went something like this.
“Are you free tonight?”
“No.”
“Go out this Saturday?”
“Not possible.”
“Dinner Wednesday?”
“I’m slammed.”
“Coffee on Friday?”
“I’m really booked.”

“Concert?”
“I’d like to, but I know I will regret it.
“Fishing?”
“Unfortunately not.”
“Beach?”
I’m afraid I can’t.”
“Nature Hike?”
“I am allergic to mosquitoes.”
“Amusement Park?”
“Pass.”
“Do you not like me?”
“No, I happen to be lesbian.”
CHAPTER 4
While I am not a letterman athlete in high school, I am athletic. I
have grown up playing little league baseball, basketball and football. I
am tall and skinny, and not bulky as one needs to be for playing on the
football field.
I love Hamilton Park, my local park. Allentown sponsors a summer
playground program that includes instructors. Our instructors are Greg
and Pam. They organize games, arts, crafts and prepare us for the annual
Romper Day held in August at the Fairgrounds. The day begins at 9:00

a.m. and ends at 3:30 p.m. I enjoy the softball, basketball, kickball and
flag football games.
In the evenings, the local guys meet up to play full court basketball
games. I do not own a car, so I walk or ride my bike everywhere. The
point is, I am athletic enough.
Growing up near Philadelphia, I root for all the Philly sports teams
such as the Eagles, Flyers, Phillies and 76ers.

It can be painful being a

Philly fan. The last time the Flyers won a Stanley Cup in hockey was
1975. The last time the 76ers won a basketball championship was in 1983.
The last time the Phillies
won a World Series was in 2008. It was not until 2017, a fifty-one year
drought, the Philadelphia Eagles football team finally won a Super Bowl!
Total Championships from 1970-2020 is six, total losses of
championships is fifteen. I guess winning a championship every 8.33
years over 50 years is not the worst.
Next to Printing Class, Phys-Ed is my second favorite class. I love
playing floor hockey, volleyball, and soccer. One day we shoot arrows at
targets and I am a pretty good shot. What I do not like about gym class is
the shower time. Don’t get me wrong, I love long hot showers, in my

own personal bathroom at home.
After gym class, we have to shower in a tiled room with lockers and
benches that smells like sweat and feet. Sometimes I catch someone taking
a peek at my package. I am not the smallest, but I not the largest either.
The trick is to take the shower quickly, and to stand next to someone who
has a smaller willy than you. That is enough talk about school gym
shower time. I blush every time I think about it. One day in the showers,
I feel something warm on my leg. Miguel, who has had a mustache since
5th grade, is laughing as he pees on my leg.
CHAPTER 5
Dad hates his job. Dad works on an assembly line making trucks.
Bethlehem Steel use to employ 30,000 workers during World War II, and
today employs 1,000 workers. Dad’s auto factory use to employ 10,000
workers, and today, employs 1,000. He often tells me, “Pick a job you
enjoy doing for the rest of your life.” Mom works as a nurse and seems
satisfied helping people.
Darwin said, “It is not the strongest who survive, but those most
willing to adapt that survive.” In history class, Ms. Magillicutty teaches
us that in 2020, we are living in the 4th Revolution. Revolution 1:

Agricultural; Revolution 2: Industrial;

Revolution 3: Computers and

Fourth Revolution being the Robotic or Artificial Intelligence Revolution.
To think my parents have lived through the death of the Industrial
Revolution through the Computer and A.I. Revolution must give them
“Adaptation Fatigue.” Stephen Hawking, Bill Gates and Elon Musk say
“unemployment could be 47% in the U.S. by 2033 with Robots taking
human jobs. This dampens my hope in my generation’s future.
I have a paper route. I deliver to 75 homes, and make approximately
$100 every two weeks depending on my tips. I once had a yard sale, and
made $75. After some Spring Cleaning, Dad donated some old tools and
board games. Mom donated jewelry, purses and books. She also donated
some Avon stuff since she was Avon Lady. There also is a pile of
clothing to sell as well.
My neighbor, Steven Snotter came into the yard, and stuck his hand
into the money till and began to run away. Steven is fast, but I was so
upset when I saw him stealing the money, my adrenaline kicked in and I
chased him into the front yard, tackled him and punched him several times
in the face and grabbed his arm and pounded his fist into the ground until
he let go of the dollar bills and coins in his hand. He ran away crying,
and I walked into my back yard triumphantly with money in tow. I am

generally a lover and not a fighter, but when the neighborhood thief
stole my money, I saw red!
All the stuff left over after the yard sale was donated to Goodwill, a
charity thrift store.
Besides my paper route and yard sale, I spent two summers at
Muhlenberg College as a summer student painter. Painting seems fun to
me for about two weeks, and then the scraping, priming, first and second
coating gets old pretty quick.
I am an excellent painter, and enjoy “the zen” of the painting project,
but often get quite a bit of paint on my painting pants, tee-shirts and work
boots. Lou, the painting crew supervisor likes to say to me at the end of
the work day, “Did you get any paint on the wall?”
You would think oil paint is tougher to get off the skin than latex
paint, but with mineral spirits, it comes off quickly. Latex or water based
paint, had to be rubbed over and over with a face cloth and soap.
This earning a living is not easy. Manual labor must be called work
because IT IS WORK!

CHAPTER 6
What is a wage? It is time given in work to be paid a certain amount
of money. Anything purchased where money is exchanged, is really the
amount of time you worked at “x” wage to purchase said item. In the
northeastern part of the United States, it is often heard, “Time is money!”
The Northeast is also where the most heart attacks take place.
I don’t really see myself working an office job in the future. I also
don’t want to choose a job that will be stolen from me in the future by a
robot or artificial intelligence either. In addition to going to school,
working the paper route, and spending the evening at home with the
family, there are things I want to purchase!
I want to upgrade my smart phone ($750), get a Fjallraven Rugged
Backpack ($80) to carry my books and laptop to and from school on the
Carrot Bus. I want a ukulele ($65) so I can learn how to play the song
“Somewhere over the Rainbow.” I want a Waterproof Portable Bluetooth
Speaker ($80) with 12 hours of playtime per battery charge.
I want a Homall Gaming Office Chair ($140) with a headrest and
lumbar support and Bluetooth Headphones ($42). I also want the
Flybold Slackline Kit ($60) and the Anker Nebula Capsule mini-projector

($300) and the Elago 3 in 1 Charging Station ($30) from Amazon. I also
need to be saving money so I can get an Associates Degree from a
community college that offers Printing Management Degrees.
There has to be an easier way of making money!
CHAPTER 7
I am told High School is the best time of your life. Being a high
school student also brings anxiety with all this talk of climate change,
pandemics, depression, body dissatisfaction, drugs, suicide and so forth
and so on.
Today in History Class, Ms. Magillicutty teaches us about Social
Pyramids in History. European Feudalism had its King, Nobles, Knights,
Merchants and Farmers with the Peasants at the bottom. Japanese
Feudalism, had its Emperor, Shoguns, Daimyo, Samurai and Peasants.
In the New World the Spanish had the Penninulares, Creoles, Mestizos
and Mulattoes with African Slaves and Native Americans on the bottom.
I raise my hand and say “So the American Education Pyramid would
be the Superintendent, the Principal, Assistant Principals, Teachers and
then Students?” Ms. Magillicutty nods her head at me approvingly for
my witty comment on social pyramids.

After class, there is a ruckus in the hallway. A 9th grade boy says to a
9th grade girl, “You are ugly!” A crowd surrounds them and begins to
grow. The young lady breaks into a boxer pose. The young man pushes
her and like boxer Sugar Ray Leonard, she throws a left jab to his
stomach buckling the male bully. She then throws a right to his chin and
he drops to the ground at the crowd goes into a frenzy.
Little did the bully know was that this young lady went to the gym
everyday to practice her boxing. This guy is going to be made fun of for
a long time for getting beat up by a girl. There is justice in the world
sometimes.
I meet up with Richie during lunch, and the other Basic Kids at the
Basic Kid table. Frank says, “Hey Jim, why do you always seem to get
more food on your tray than the rest of us?” I said, “Well, the lunch
ladies must think I am cute.
Don’t be hating on me just because I may get and an extra scoop of
potatoes, or extra fries, extra meatballs, or the biggest piece of Salisbury
steak.” The truth is, I am “favored” because my Aunt Arlene and Aunt
Lucille work as lunch ladies at our school. When my buddies learn the
truth, they whisper to my Aunts, “I am best friends with Jim,” hoping to
get some extra food.

I ask Richie if I can meet with him after school at his place. I tell
him I have an idea, a plan I want to pass by him. Richie says “Of
course!” I like Richie’s place because he has a huge television, a
billiards table and a pinball machine in the basement.
CHAPTER 8
I am sitting on the sofa, as Richie is sitting in his bean bag chair in his
basement as I get ready to share my plan.
“Before we get started Richie, I have a list of suggested names for
your rock band.” I hand him a sheet of paper with suggested band names.
“Whatever name you like it is yours. If you don’t like any of the
suggested band names, that is no skin off my nose.”
Suggested Band Names for Richie
Aye-Ayes

Mange

Derringers

Oversexed

Egg Shells

Quarantined

Fishmongers

Rank-n-File

Grapples

Schlock

Hookahs

Tedious

Incurables

Vagabonds

Joggles

Weeds

Knots

Ying Yangs

“Richie, this is my plan, and you can agree to it or not. No hard
feelings either way. My plan is to print some money in the Printing
Classroom. I can make template and print it, but I will need a look
out. You are the only one I can trust as a look out.. What about it?”
“Jim, you have been my best friend since I moved from Paterson
to Allentown. I trust you and want to be part of this money-making
scheme. I’m in!”
“This is the plan. In two days, there is a basketball game at the
school Gymnasium. I will be hiding in the Printing Room, and I will
start the printing presses from 4:15 p.m. until 5:00 p.m. The hallways
should be clear at this time - any commotion or hallway activity will
be happening around the gym at the other end of the school.”
“Richie, I need you to wear a ski mask, and spray paint the
security camera in the hall by the Printing Shop. There are no
cameras in the stairwell closest to the Printing Shop, so your identity
will remain safe, and when I clear out of the Printing Room, it will
not be able to identify me as well. All you have to do, is knock on the
Printing Room door between 4:00 p.m. to 4:15 p.m. to signal me, the
camera has been covered in spray paint.”

“Dude, let’s do it!”
I have to use the bathroom before I leave. As I am abiding on the
commode, I notice a moist wipes container on the floor. I have never
used a moist wipe before, and decide to enjoy the miracle of the moist
wipe experience. I use the wipe only to feel my bum catch fire. The tall
plastic container are not moist wipes, but Clorox Wipes full of bleach and
chemicals. I scream like a bobcat in the middle of a moon lit night, which
is a loud eerie and makes the hair on the back of your neck stand up.
CHAPTER 9
My legs are cramping as I hide behind the Printing Shop Laminating
Machine waiting for my Shop Teacher, Mr. Press, to exit the premises.
He is usually out of the room by 3:00 p.m., but today he is there until 3:30
p.m.. I have chosen this day because there is a basketball game at 4:00
p.m., and the janitor is less likely to hear the printing machine running
after school hours.
Funny how time can go by quickly or slowly. As I am waiting, so
many thoughts cross my mind. My brain is the dancing flea. I am
thinking about girls, sports, school projects, more girls, items I want to
purchase, automobiles, other girls, and my back molar that is hurting. I

hope it is just a cavity and not a root canal. I hear the root canals are
painful.
To make the templates for copy in the Printing Room, I have taken
out $2,200 of money from the bank out of my savings account. I ask for
twenty $100 dollar bills, and for twenty $10 bills. With my scanning
machine, I make copies of the front and back of the 20 bills on the
scanning machine. I put the four scans, of the front and back of the $10
bills, and the front and back of the $100 bills, into my flash drive to make
the copies in the Printing Room.
Equipped only with my home computer, and $99 scanner, I make
copies of the bogus bills. The most counterfeited currency in America is
the $20 bill, but I have chosen to make copies of the $10 and $100 bills.
The $10 bills will be used at area businesses, but the $100 bills, I will use
to make a deposit. As long as my deposit is under $10,000, I will not
have to worry about Homeland Security snooping into my bank account.
The goal is to put $9,500 into my new account, using the $100 bills,
and then print $5,000 in $10 denominations that
will be split between Richie and me. This means I will have to print 500
template sheets to create the $10 bills, and 95 sheets to create the $100

bills.
I have also opened up a bank account with another bank, where in ten
days, when I have received my A.T.M. Card, I can deposit the money
into an A.T.M. machine to launder the dirty money.
At 4:15 p.m. I hear “all is clear knock,” and operation “Operation
Varsity Printing Team” begins. I turn on the printer, and put in the flash
drive. It takes five minutes to print out the $100 bills. It takes 20 minutes
to print out the $10 bills. I pack all the counterfeit money stacks into a
duffle bag, and walk to the stairwell, and exit on the first floor. It is
getting dark outside, and I calmly walk to Richie’s 2009 Hunter green
Jeep Wrangler he calls “the screamer,” and we drive out the parking lot as
cool as a cucumbers. Tomorrow, I will cut the money carefully with a
utility knife to create the individual bills.
I will be $12,000 richer, and Richie will have $2,500 in his pocket for
being the look-out. If I worked at the local burger joint netting $10 an
hour, it would come to 1,200 hours of labor, or 30 weeks of 40 hour
shifts.

Making $12,000 for less than a week’s worth is pretty good for a

high school kid.

CHAPTER 10
Richie and I head to the Mall Saturday night to spend some money.
As we approach the Mall, there is a homeless man sitting by the
entryway, and he is in ragged clothing, sweating profusely, and standing
there with his hand out.
“Can you spare some change?”
“What do you need the money for?”
“I am hungry!”
“Okay - I will buy you a pizza slice.”
“No, no, no. I don’t really want pizza.”
“Are you spending the money on booze or drugs?”
“Kid, I need the money for a haircut.”
“Come on buddy, you hair is already short!”
“You got me - I needs some booze.”
I appreciated the bum’s honesty and give him a $100 bill. His eyes
grow as big as silver dollars, and he wants to give me a hug, but I give
him a stiff-arm, just as I had been taught in little league football, and said,
“Buddy, we all need a break sometime.”
Richie says, “That was generous of you.” I say, “I am

feeling generous!” We walk to the pizza shop and get some slices.
“You know what Richie, my Uncle told me there are two

things

a poor man can enjoy - good food and sex.”
“Sounds like good advice Jim. Did you Uncle offer any
other advice for a poor man?”
As a matter of fact he did. My Uncle also said when it comes to
dating, you want to date a poor girl over a rich one. A poor girl you can
keep happy. If you marry a rich girl, she can make your life miserable if
you do not provide her the “rich life” she is used to.
Richie and I go to the Sports Store and buy some posters of the
Eagles, Phillies, Flyers and 76ers. At the Barnes and Noble Store and I
buy a music CD, Dark Side of the Moon by Pink Floyd and the book A
Simple Plan by Scott Smith. Lastly, we enter the Video Arcade Store
and use our newly printed $10 bills to get $50 of game tokens, and spent
four hours playing all the video games we could handle until we get
blisters on our fingers
As we walked back to Richie’s car, we passed two women, one of
them looking pregnant.
“Congratulations! When are you due?”

“Oh, that is just my beer belly.”
There is no recovering from a blunder like that.
CHAPTER 11
Richie and I stop by a diner on the way home to celebrate a plan well
executed. Two high school ladies, one with pink hair and the other with
purple hair, were escorted to their table by the Diner Hostess. The girls sat
down, looked at their menus and took out their cell phones before and
after placing their order with the waitress. They looked at their phones as
they consumed their meals.
They looked at their cell phones while they waited for their check,
and only stopped looking when they donned their jackets and left a tip on
the table. As the lady hipsters exited the diner, the pink haired lady said
to the purple haired lady, “Good talk!” Richie and I look at each other
like, “Whhhaaattt?”
I say to Richie, “You know, I read some workers waste 6 day a year
by taking smoke breaks. Research also shows workers waste 10 days a
year by playing on their cell phones. You know what that means? I
should get an extra 16 days of vacation per year wherever I work,
because, I do not smoke, nor own a cell phone.”

Richie says, “What kind of person does not own a cell phone?”
CHAPTER 12
Life is good. Nothing has really changed except for the fact I am
$12,500 dollars richer in counterfeit money. The school week goes by
fairly normally.
MONDAY: I wear my “Black Lives Matter” shirt, and a kid in gym
class gives me some grief by calling me a “Virtue Signaler.” I responded,
“I don’t know, Tom. Are you an Anti-Virtue Signaler? Are you in favor
of police brutality?”
TUESDAY: We have a Lockdown. Since the Columbine School
Shooting in 1999, part of the monthly school schedule is to practice
“Lock Downs.” When a lock down is announced, all class room doors
are locked, and no one is allowed to in or out of the classroom until the
“all clear” has been announced. The practice drill usually take 3-4
minutes. If it is longer than that, you just pray you do not have an active
shooter.
WEDNESDAY: I get detention because I arrive to my
German class late for the third time. I go to the Detention Room. I sit
down with the other dozen or so students when Frank is brought in by the

Dean of Students.
Frank was an angry kid! To his teachers he said, “I don’t care!” To
the Guidance Counselors he said, “I don’t care!” To the Assistant
Principal he said, “I don’t care!” To the Social Worker he said, “I don’t
care!” to the Child Study Team worker he said, “I don’t care!” To the
School Psychologist he said, “I don’t care!”
Frank was nice to me. I guess Frank had the power to not care,
because he was going to be buried by cancer in three years.
THURSDAY: We have group work on Thursday in History Class. I
am paired up with Cristal. Cristal loves animals! She is upset, and I ask
her what’s up.
She found a mouse in a glue trap in her kitchen two weeks ago. She
hid the mouse under her bed before her father could throw the mouse out
in the trash. Each night, she would feed it a few bird seeds, and use a
cocktail straw to water it. She named the mouse Chucky Cheese and
could hear it squeaking in the dark hours of the eve.
On Wednesday night, she went home to find her father sitting next to
the reading lamp with newspaper in hand. As the door closed he said,
“Cristal, the rodent IS DEAD!” It was obvious this morning, Cristal was

still grieving the loss of Chucky Cheese.
FRIDAY: It was quite an ordinary day and during Printing Class,
the phone rang, and Mr. Press said to me, “James, you are to report to
the Principal’s office!”
As I walked into the office, there was my Father, Mother and Pastor
Mike sitting in chairs next to the secretary’s desk.
I sat across from them, and Pastor Mike said, “Son, greed can
poison your soul. Being content with what you have is a virtue. If you do
not learn contentment, you will never be satisfied.”
Principal Brown opens the door and says to my parents and me,
“Please come in.” Sitting across from us were Government Men. The
looked like the “Men in Black,’ the secret government organization
monitoring extraterrestrial life on earth, but it was really the Secret
Service.
I put my head on the table.
“Have I risked all, by being too greedy?”

40


