For a time, the walls of the house were veined with fresh
horsehair and fattened by shredded newspapers that spoke of
electricity and fireless candles. These antique insulations had not
yet crumbled to flakes, not yet begun failing at their job of
protecting the house’s people from the abusive New England cold.
The house was young then, its trusses strong, flexible, still
bleeding the sap of the sky-tall pines they had been hewn from.
One night during this vibrant stretch, around the house,
everything burned.
The people who lived within the house — two generations removed
from those who had brought the house into creation — were celebrating
what they called Independence Day. The couple leaned against a low
swooping branch of an adolescent oak in the front yard and spoke to


other smiling strangers of how the year was progressing since their
Civil War ended, all sipping from glasses of what they ordered from
their footman as bourbon. As their palaver entered its alcohol-fueled
crescendo, a dark harmony thrummed below it.
At first, each in the gathering took note of a smell not unlike a
nascent fire struggling to burn green wood.
Then, the screaming.
Not just the screaming of people. No, the screaming of the other
houses.
Houses scream. They scream like they talk, but instead of creaks,
they bang, instead of hisses, they explode. Especially when the early
summer is fevered and parched with no rain in weeks.
They explode.
The couple feared for their house. The agony of potential loss
transformed their faces. It moistened them with tears. It reddened
them with anger.
After all surrounding the house was reduced to blackened remains,
its people could, unlike before, peer unhindered at the unyielding
blue of the Northern Atlantic from the house’s top floor. Together
they were the only ones left perched on the hill.
#
In a more modern time, the house endured many visible symptoms of
a grievous affliction — it was no longer a home, and it hadn’t been
one in some time.

Empty Rooms / 3

Some symptoms were cosmetic, like the gutters. They were the
first to be ignored, to cascade into disrepair. The shiftless parade
of inhabitants of the house weren’t invested enough to look into the
gutters, to clean out the clogging flotsam, to peek over the metal
edges and acknowledge decay.
Without that care, the gutters became like the teeth of an
elderly couple the house had sheltered in a more focused part of its
past — yellowed, warped with plaque, dangling at aged angles, and
leaking rainwater like uncontrolled spittle.
Another manifestation of the house’s homelessness was the state
of the foundation. Cracks widened unforeseen like the movement of a
clock’s hour hand, bits of mortar flaking away from the granite slabs
and dusting the earthen floor.
A doctor who had both lived and practiced within the walls of the
house had once discussed with his patient a thing called cancer. The
doctor did not use the word “rot” or “crumbling” as he would have when
speaking of the house. He uttered the words cancer and terminal with
sympathetic eyes, a quiet tone, and a soft hand placed on a knee. None
of the people that had ever lived in the house had experienced cancer.
Some of its people had emitted aberrant odors at disparate times, some
had coughed blood, some had shrieked in mindless pain.
And some of its people had grown old and weak and died under its
plaster ceilings. Those people could have experienced that certain
deflating of body and soul — something akin to a crumbling foundation.

Empty Rooms / 4

That could have been.

#
Periodically, the house made sounds. Some dismissed them as mere
byproducts of the foundation settling further into the earth,
relieving pressure on parts of the structure and shifting it to
others. And that was all, they would say. Simple, explained.
But others made secretive faces and passed between themselves
ideas that doors popping open of their own accord, or knick-knacks
being turned to face walls instead of the open centers of rooms were
the result of some other-worldly energy trapped within the walls of
the house. They used words like ghost, spirit, and once even the
foreign poltergeist. These people would say that, whatever it happened
to be, it was clear the house was attempting conversation with them
through its limited vocabulary of creaks, cracks, pops, hisses.
It had been generations since the house came to be, they
surmised, why would it not attempt communion?
#
The house had three distinct series of hand carved notches in its
doorways, climbing their way up from threshold to ceiling. The notches
marked the growth of three children from three different families of
the house’s people.
The marks of Shamus Flannery reached three-foot four inches
before he refused to stand for his parents to mark him, citing his

Empty Rooms / 5

advanced age of five as making him too old for such nonsense. He left
the house ten years later as a strong of heart, lean of muscle man,
with dark, glossy hair. He died in that Civil War.
The notches of Ingrid Watts ceased at four-feet one inch. She had
been born within the house. When she came to be she had cried for
nights upon nights. Her notches did not have much separation from each
other, as though she preferred to stay as small as she could. During
the entire third year of her life, she could not be torn from a doll
made of worn broom straw, rag cloth, and pipe cleaners. It was given
to her by the cook who lodged in the carriage house. Ingrid existed
for just under ten years before suffering a horrible, stinking fever
in the summer of 1919. She fell asleep one dewy morning and never
woke.
The marks of little Willard Miller disappeared after achieving a
height of two-feet ten inches. He either succeeded or attempted to
climb upon anything he could reach: drawers absently left open,
bannisters brought to shiny attention by a fresh polish, any stair
within his sightline. How he ended is a mystery. Neither of his
parents ever spoke his name after he wandered off into a sparkling,
clear, fall night in 1931. It was a Thursday.
#
There were the empty rooms, the most acute affirmation that the
house was no longer a home. In truth, they were not completely empty.
There were the bats who flitted through the attic; the ragged mice who

Empty Rooms / 6

scuttled amidst the walls; the other non-people who crawled and crept
and slithered within.
But they did not matter more than annoyance. They were not
people. These creatures did not leave unseen parts of themselves
within the house. People left their marks on the house when they
suffered, when they grieved, when they howled like creatures, cackled
like tickled toddlers.
Invisible notches, wooden flesh.
#
One couple never marked the growth of their children into the
trim of the house’s doorways. They had the emptiest rooms of all.
Julia and Francis Jenkowski became the house’s people in the
spring of 1951. They closed the ponderous oak entry door behind them
on that crisp day — the front lawn smelling of earth previously
decayed, now issuing life — and they embraced. They sat in each of the
four bedrooms other than the one they were to sleep in, sharing a
crystal glass of sparkling liquid between them. They guessed whether
each room would be filled with a girl or boy, what their born names
would be, each placing a bet on their prognostications, sealing their
wagers with kisses.
That same night, naked in the soft darkness, each repeatedly
whispering how much their love compared to oceans, moons, wells,
amounts inexpressible, they moved in unison until there was nothing
but the sound of their breathing filling the walls.

Empty Rooms / 7

Moments like that left the house with a degree of warmth far
superior to feeding a fireplace full of already searing coals one more
seasoned, split log.
This accumulation of warmth was what had once caused visiting
strangers to smile as they stepped inside the house without even
realizing it.
To them, an invisible embrace. To it, the reason to be.
#
Francis Jenkowski arrived one evening at dusk, swiping a light
dusting of snow from his narrow shoulders. Before he extracted his
second arm from his woolen overcoat, Julia tattled that they were to
have a child. Their first of many children, she said. Francis clapped
his hands together three quick times and kissed her on her forehead.
He called her his jewel.
Months later, on a moonless Tuesday night, Julia sat upright in
bed and shoved Francis awake. He turned on the light. She was crying.
She flipped back the duvet. The sheets were impossibly red. Francis
spoke only one word: Jesus. He placed a trembling phone call.
Julia wanted to back away from the mass of red, she said so
aloud. But then she said she was afraid to, she didn’t dare move. For
the baby.
A doctor came. He looked her over, placing his hands in places
that only Francis had. The doctor said they needed to go to the
hospital.

Empty Rooms / 8

They returned, not with a new squalling child, but with something
else. Something heavy and unseen over them. Something that crushed
their posture, muted their conversation.
On August 8th, 1952, Julia Jenkowski brewed a pot of tea, chilled
it with three aching handfuls of ice cubes and squeezed in seven fresh
lemon slices, swirling in the rinds when she finished. She climbed the
stairs, went to the bathroom and extracted a petite, glass bottle. She
uncorked it and swallowed all the contents along with a sweating glass
of the tart tea. She then lay down on that same bed, noting aloud that
it was no longer red.
She fell asleep, cradling her pillow. Like tiny Ingrid Watts, she
never woke.
Francis arrive home late into that night as he had made his habit
since the day the couple came home without their child, but instead
with their shared extra gravity.
Without turning the light on, he slipped into bed beside his
wife. Her coldness did not register with him.
At dawn, Francis woke and sat upright with a terrible and
rattling inhale.
He turned to his wife.
He said, Jesus, as he had before. He called the doctor, as he had
before. He carried his wife out the door, as he had before.
Neither of them ever came back to the house.
That was a mark on the house that was to never go away.

Empty Rooms / 9

#
Time was relentless. The house struggled to retain the warmth of
all its people as their stays were shorter, their warmth escaping
through a door opened to the elements too many times.
Then the nameless man stepped within its walls.
He invited in strangers who were as strange to him as they were
to the house. They measured and they took notes. They snapped pictures
— frigid, gnashing flashing that bit at something deep within the
house.
The nameless man gestured at the grand, central stairway, at each
mantle that embraced the house’s fireplaces.
#
In July of the year 1965, the house’s people were Mr. and Mrs.
Joseph Clayton. Mary and Joseph. They remarked on their names, telling
each other they were destined to be one and together, according to the
only book they kept, a thick one with translucent pages and a cover
worn from its original black to ashen grey. They called it the Holy
Scripture.
Joseph Clayton left Mary alone for long stretches, many times a
few days length. While he was gone, she sat at a small, yellow table
in an unlit kitchen. She flipped the pages in their Holy Scripture.
She smoked cigarettes, lighting one off the still lit remains of the
previous. She drank from a bottle of blackberry brandy that she hid in
a half-empty tube of oats.

Empty Rooms / 10

She muttered to herself, to the open air, hugging a thick shawl
around her shoulders to keep her warm. Her husband had told her not to
build fires and she did not. She mumbled of redemption, the cruelty of
God, the forgiveness of God, the Holy Spirit filling a person until
there was no more person, just Spirit.
The house had existed for over one hundred years. Its warmth had
grown so much with all it had sheltered, all the notches that they had
made in it, all the wonderful imperfections they had caused.
Over its absorbent years, people within the house had opened
their books and read them for hours on end, just like Mary Clayton.
People had popped open bottles whether to celebrate or to mourn.
People had built fires to keep them warm, had lit stoves to sustain
them.
When she left the kitchen to use the powder room, the love and
grief of Julia Jenkowski, the curiosity of Willard, the shrieking of
Ingrid, the loyalty of Shamus, all of the warmth it had absorbed of
its people, all of it grew. It swelled within the house, multiplying
and taking on a thickness that most air does not. The door to the
walk-up attic popped open, jangling a tiny, superstitious bell placed
around the doorknob eighty-five years before.
Then.
All the kitchen cabinet doors swung open like the opening of Mrs.
Mary Clayton’s book. All the drawers shot out, their contents hissing
like a fleet of popping bottle caps. The gas range snapped alit,

Empty Rooms / 11

warming the gray kitchen for her return. Every bulb flicked on, giving
her light enough to read a thousand years of the Scripture.
Mrs. Mary Clayton returned to the kitchen, saw what had
transpired in her absence and held a hand to her chest. She grabbed up
her Scripture, moaning of darkness that did not relate to daylight and
snapped her hand from forehead to navel, shoulder to shoulder.
She left the house on that Wednesday morning, the day so foggy it
sought to deceive about its own time passing. She returned with
another woman, the day seeming no later or earlier than before Mrs.
Clayton left.
This woman loomed over Mrs. Clayton, her neck bent in a crooked
angle toward the top of Mary Clayton’s head. She wore a black dress
that dusted the floor and stretched all the way down her jangly arms
to her knuckles. Her hands were gloved in black. Her eyes were as dark
as her dress, her skin the opposite. The color of wet plaster.
She carried around her something absorbent, a cloud that sucked
warmth as she walked through the house. She shrunk each room she
entered. The house became less a home — more just an assembly of
materials — from her mere presence as she slithered through it.
The woman spoke. Her words were icicles. Jagged, frozen. She
spoke words older than had ever been expressed to the house. Words
that started a trembling in the footings of the house. She spoke at it
as no one had ever done.
When the house convulsed — a jarring implosion of charged ether

Empty Rooms / 12

that popped the ears of both women — Mrs. Clayton closed her eyes and
went to her knees in the middle of the living room. A painting of a
lone boat amid an obsidian sea jumped off the wall, its walnut frame
cracking at one corner. She crossed herself again. The strange woman
crushed her eyelids together and spoke louder.
The house quaked uncontrollably. Plaster cracked from the ceiling
and rained down on Mrs. Clayton, dusting her with an ash so fine it
seemed as though she’d been turned to a pillar of salt.
Then.
The house was still. It was unable to embrace its people.
Something left it, leaving it colder. Like a window had been left open
over a winter that spanned generations.
#
Next to the house, Number Ninety-Three came into existence as the
fall of 1971 was given its last rites, gasped, and gave in to a
driftwood-gray, snowless winter.
Ninety-Three had three separate entrances. None connected, all
with bare outside decks and steps made of a wood that was somehow
different — it never splintered, it never cracked.
The people who came and went from Ninety-Three were different
than any of the people the house had sheltered. They smelled of a
brutal summer low tide, though stronger, concentrated. Or they reeked
of the smoke that clung to the large trucks that increasingly rumbled
past the house, rattling the age-rippling glass of its windows,

Empty Rooms / 13

vibrating its ever-weakening foundation.
Through their separate entrances, the people from Ninety-Three
were separate from each other, never looking each other directly in
the eye, bent low as they left early in the morning and returned far
beyond the accustomed dinner time.
When Ninety-Three had only existed for eighteen years, it was
destroyed. Hulking yellow machines brought Ninety-Three to the ground
in tangles of still-strong studs, shards of sparkling glass, chunks of
lush shingles. They scooped its remains into other metal behemoths.
And then, impossibly fast, with skeletal bits of Ninety-Three
still poking out of its roughshod grave, something else went up in its
place.
Huge, gray, metal. Empty, with no windows. It stood in silence.
It housed no people, had no rooms. Just one gaping maw facing the
street where those same trucks came and went on a numbing, predictable
schedule.
If that brute had replaced Ninety-Three, and Ninety-Three had
sheltered so many people, where did that leave the house, when all of
its rooms were just as empty now, serving no purpose, not even one as
crudely modern as that next to it?
#
The nameless man led his swarming, ant-like men over the front
threshold of the house. Unlike the men, the tools they carried had
names, terrifying in their aptness. Relentless hammers, brutish

Empty Rooms / 14

sledges, saws devilishly efficient in their bifurcating.
The house had experienced tools and the workers who wielded them.
It had withstood the caring touch of maintenance. It had sustained —
thrived on, even — the required surgery of modernization. It had
evolved from candelabras to lightbulbs, from burning wood to coal to
oil, from a carriage house and horse hitch to an asphalt drive and
garage door that opened itself.
But this, with these men, this was not an upgrade, some repairs.
This was not care.
This was ruthless transformation.
It began in the early summer of 1982, at the grand staircase. The
place where everything connected. Where all rooms flowed to and from.
The center of everything.
At the top of each flight of stairs, a heavier door, made of cold
metal, replaced the original wooden ones. The first floor was no
longer open, the stairs now blocked off and shooting straight through
the house not like a system of architectural joints and tendons, but a
hole. A tunnel of nothingness.
With their prying saws they cut at the house, forced invasive
conduits into walls and floors, added inadequate and trembling stoves
and refrigerators to rooms that used to house mewling newborns,
grieving mothers. They inserted tiny bathrooms where there used to be
closets of furs, dinner jackets, amusing holiday costumes — rooms that
had smelled of cedar instead of carelessly vented dampness.

Empty Rooms / 15

They stripped the house of its mantles, ripping them apart,
skinning them from its walls. They blocked the fireplaces, covering
over them with ashen, choking drywall.
They divided the house. Splitting floors and rooms into separate
entities, imbibing them with distinct, disparate personalities.
Its people no longer belonged to the house. They did not care for
the house as it had been cared for in the past. The house was just
another thing in their lives — one more check to periodically write,
one more key on their keyring.
They merely passed through the house without ever caressing the
antique trim work, without ever attempting to repair a tiny scratch
because it was in a favorite stretch of hardwood floor, without ever
issuing aloud their future and how it belonged within the house’s
walls. They moved on without imparting any essence at all.
#
A dissected stretch of time passed. The house sheltered fewer and
fewer of its transient people. Then one featureless couple carried
their life out the door in six plastic convenience store bags.
No one replaced them. The postman stopped climbing the granite
front steps. The tall tree in front of the house, the one with the
low, swooping branch that children had climbed pretending to be
pirates and couples had watched fireworks and shooting stars on — that
wonderful branch surrendered to a random, windy, lightning-filled
summer evening, split and fell to the ground. It went to rot within

Empty Rooms / 16

six months, harboring only millipedes and slugs.
Passers-by gave the house pitying looks and remarked on the
condition of the shingles, curling like scales on the decomposing body
of an ancient reptile. They scolded an unknown caretaker for the lawn
that grew wild in the spring and summer like some country pauper’s
field. They stepped into the street in the winter instead of braving
the icy walk which was neglected storm after storm, the snow just
layering and ever-hardening. The house suffered young men defiling its
exterior with hissing cylinders, even carving their marks into its
cracking flesh.
Ambivalent automobiles glided past the house, no longer slowing
their pace to just have one more moment of observation. There had been
a time of envious pointing fingers, of dreaming smiles — no longer.
Around the house more metal, blank, massive cubes appeared.
Somehow, they seemed to blend together, the house and them. Different
creation stories, contrasting histories, identical futures. Nothing
but empty rooms.
#
And yet.
#
A new man and a new woman. A new couple. They appeared on the
house’s porch in darkness on a Tuesday night, trying to open the front
door just once, giving up and slumping against the door. They slept
the remainder of the night on the rotting wood of the porch in each

Empty Rooms / 17

others arms.
At sunrise they stumbled away, their only language a mixture of
coughing, snorting, and spitting. The woman foraged in her pocket and
extracted an already unwrapped candy on a stick. She offered it to the
man, he declined. She put it in her mouth, her cheek puffing like a
tumor.
They returned the next night to try the door again, with more
vigor, but with the same failing result, the man falling over onto the
porch floor, mumbling, the woman kicking at the door and missing.
Perhaps the house had something left of all that its people had
bestowed upon it. All that was left of the grieving Mrs. Julia, the
sadness of her husband, the conversation of all of its people, the
fear of losing the house in the fire of 1866.
All of that warmth, that essence, all that was left in every
corner — any corner — even after the cold woman with the ancient,
emptying words and the nameless man and his army. It collected. It
drew in. It filled — slowly, but it filled.
It released.
The walls popped, studs twisted, old plaster crumbled, newer
drywall cracked, the porch slanted further toward the street. The
house listed left and settled with a sigh-like thump of finality.
All of that for an inch.
The front door opened just that much. A creaking that echoed into
the quiet night.

Empty Rooms / 18

The couple mumbled to each other. The woman put her hands on the
man’s back and forced him toward the door.
He reached out and pushed the door with his palm. It creaked
another inch. The man entered furtively, bowed, looking in every
direction and pulling the woman behind him.
They stumbled out of the darkness of the night and into darkness
of the house.
#
Those two, the most recent to the house, they smoked acrid
concoctions out of glass pipes, they built small fires in the corner
of rooms, not knowing of the grand old fireplaces that lay hidden.
They excreted into plumbing that no longer drained.
And yet, the house had people again. They filled the house with
life, albeit not like before, but there was the same dark pain mixed
with spurts of manic joy. Their desperation, destituteness, their
disconnection from each other, to anything outside of the house’s
walls — it didn’t matter.
They did not care to leave. Only one of them left at a time,
usually the man, but he was never gone long. He was called Baby. She
was called Honey, but sometimes they reversed their names. That is how
much they mingled together within the house.
They talked of colors and shapes and gods and demons. They saw
and spoke to people or things that were not there. They sputtered
about the texture of the walls, decrepit as they were. Of what must

Empty Rooms / 19

have happened here where they pointed, there where they crawled on
their knees and caressed with trembling, frail hands.
Sometimes they would dart up and down the stairs, visiting each
room, chattering about its shape, its potential, sometimes both
talking at the same time, layering unbelieved praise over each other,
increasingly energetic, increasingly agitated.
Even though the rooms had been altered, the new couple acted as
though the house had not devolved into the wreck that it was. They saw
past what had been done there, only seeing what lie ahead of them,
even though their vision of the future did not stretch beyond their
next fragmented thought.
The house had people again. Its people.


