“It’s Michael, not Mike,” said Jon to Cindy, doing his best
impression.

Double dates.

There was nothing Jon hated more,

especially with Michael and Michelle.
“It’s good to get out,” said Cindy.
gone, I need social interaction.”
feet and ankles.

“And with the kids

She proceeded to massage his

“I don’t know why going out with them bothers

you so much,” she said, moving on to his big toes.
Jon gritted his teeth.
toes, he caved.

Once she worked through all of his

Cindy called Michelle to confirm.

Jon could

hear Michelle’s nasally laugh coming over the phone from across
the room as they switched to the latest gossip about their few
mutual friends.

Writer’s Block 2

“It’s all set,” said Cindy, walking back to the couch to
lay in Jon’s lap.

“Friday at La Trovita.”

“Awesome,” said Jon as she kissed him on the cheek.
The night of the dinner was clear and cold.

Jon and Cindy

hurried across the parking lot, hunching their shoulders against
the wind.
“The valet is just one more way for the restaurant to skim
a few dollars,” said Jon, as Cindy maneuvered around the piles
of snow in the lot.
“Of course, dear,” she replied.
The restaurant was warmer, if only by temperature. “Did we
tell you what Michael’s doing now?” said Michelle, cutting her
veal into bite sized pieces.

Jon forced a smile, noting once

again that Michelle’s wide set eyes and large flaring nostrils
reminded him of an alpaca.

“He’s going to be a professor at

Sturbridge,” she said, taking a tiny nibble of the meat on her
fork.
“Oh, how interesting,” said Cindy.

Jon noticed her face

getting red, flushed from the warmth of the Cabernet.
“It’s just an adjunct position,” said Michael, placing a
forkful of salmon into his mouth. “Nothing that glamorous, just
something to fill in my free time.”

Writer’s Block 3

“Oh honey, you are too modest,” said Michelle, placing her
hand on his shoulder and fingering a curl of his thick, dark
hair.

“Of course, what should I expect, being married to such

an intellectual?”

She let out a small chuckle.

“I suppose I just felt the need to give something back to
society.

The youths of today, their minds are so malleable and

starved for intellectual stimulation,” said Michael, flashing a
smile meant to dazzle.
“And what better place than at a second-rate community
college,” said Jon.

“Ouch!” he yelped, his leg stinging from

the stiletto that impaled it.
“So, what’s your second act, Jon?” asked Michael.
Jon paused. “Second what?”
“Your second act. The next chapter on life’s great
journey.”
Jon stared blankly at Michael, who proceeded to pour Cindy
another glass.

Cindy let out a small burp, excusing herself as

she took a sip off the top of the full glass.
“Jon’s just fine where he is,” said Cindy.
“Still at that steering wheel factory?” asked Michael.
“He’s in quality control,” Cindy added helpfully.

Writer’s Block 4

“Quality control,” said Michael. “That sounds like the
perfect job for you.

I mean, I know I would be bored to tears

doing something like that, but it’s great you’ve found your
purpose in life.”
napkin.

Michael patted his dark goatee with his

“I suppose everyone needs to challenge their minds in

different ways.”

Jon pretended to ignore the comment, rather

trying to calculate his success rate in flicking a pea in
Michael’s glass when no one was looking.
The night continued with another bottle of Cabernet before
switching to decaf coffee for dessert.

Cindy poked at her slice

of triple chocolate cake, having lost interest once Michelle’s
slice of melon came.

The waiter came around to collect plates.

Jon grabbed the uneaten cake, shoveling forkfuls of warm
chocolate into his mouth.

When the bill came, Jon and Michael

danced obligatorily around the bill, each offering and insisting
before Michael finally conceded.

Cindy hugged and kissed

Michael and Michelle goodbye as they waited for the valet.

Jon

grabbed Cindy’s arm and steered her toward the parking lot.
“That was nice,” said Cindy, leaning the car seat back.
She huffed a sigh and the air filled with a cloud of warm
alcohol infused breath.
name for himself.”

“It seems like Michael’s making quite a

Writer’s Block 5

“Yeah,” replied Jon.

They finished the rest of the ride

home in silence, Cindy snoring softly in the passenger seat.
When they pulled up to the dark, empty colonial, Jon helped out
Cindy, steadying her as she swayed up the steps.

He put her to

bed, before retiring himself.
“Second act,” he mumbled as he trailed off.

“What a load

of...”
***
Jon sat in his study the next morning, reading the local
newspaper as he finished his toast and coffee.

The edges of the

newspaper had become transparent as his butter-covered fingers
flipped through the pages.

Across the room, the television

played in the background.
“Are you a creative intellectual looking for the chance to
reach the hearts and minds of the tri-county area?”

Jon glanced

at the screen.
“Ever feel like your creative potential has been
overlooked?” said the announcer.
He folded the paper and leaned forward.
“Do you desire a chance to show your friends and family you
are more than just a boring Luddite working in quality control

Writer’s Block 6

at the local steering wheel factory?

Looking for your second

act?”
Jon continued nodding at the screen.
“Then enter today, in Channel Four’s Story Quest.

In

addition to being printed in the Tri-county Weekly Writer, the
winner of this year’s competition will receive a chance to work
with a major publisher.”
Jon cocked his head, confused.
“We mean you, Jonathan Stokes!”
He had never considered writing before.

Aside from a few

authors, he rarely read more than the newspaper each week, but
perhaps this really could be his second act.

He grabbed the

golf pencil on the coffee table and jotted down the details in
the corner of the newspaper.

As he began writing, the pencil

moved in his hand, wriggling around and slithering out.

He

looked down to see the pencil, transformed into a snake, the
head turning and hissing.
“A short story competition, Jon?

Fassssscinating,” the

snake said, tongue darting around. He blinked, and the snake had
changed, now appearing with Michael’s face.
ground, leaping up from his chair.

Jon threw it to the

The snake grew larger,

knocking over lamps and tables as it swelled to overtake the

Writer’s Block 7

entire room.

Jon looked for an exit, but Michael’s tail had

blocked the door out.
“A Luddite like you?

You’re no writer.

You’ll

ccccccccertainly fail,” he said softly, leaping forward at Jon.
The snake’s mouth widened as it came forward.

Jon felt the hot

slime slide around his entire body as the snake consumed him.
“But what about my second act?!” shouted Jon.

He sat up,

his pajamas damp and cold in the exposed air.
“What, honey?” said Cindy sleepily.
“Nothing,” said Jon.
eyes, rolling over.

“Go back to sleep.”

A writer, thought Jon.

Cindy closed her

He fell back

asleep, smiling as he tried to dream about an alpaca stomping on
a snake’s head accidentally.
The next morning at work, Jon searched for story
competitions in the area on his computer.

After some time, he

found the local radio station was in fact holding a small
contest.

Not giving the idea any more consideration, he pulled

out his credit card and signed himself up.

Act one, complete,

he thought to himself.
Over the next two weeks, Jon worked in his study,
converting the space into his own retreat.

Words of inspiration

covered the walls, famous author’s photos were sprinkled

Writer’s Block 8

between.

He had found a kitschy store for authors in the mall

downtown.
“All the real writers still use manual typewriters,” said
the store clerk.

Jon smiled, nodding in agreement.

“Excuse me,” said a lady behind Jon indignantly.
actually like my iMac.”
eyes at the lady.

“I

The clerk grinned at Jon, rolling his

Jon reciprocated, pulling out his credit card

to pay for the typewriter.
He replaced his worn leather cushioned chair for an
ergonomic stool, his khakis and polos for hemp button downs, his
cup of coffee for GMO free, additive free, conflict free herbal
tea. His study, once plainly decorated, was transformed into a
whimsical sanctuary.

He was told all of this would guarantee

success as a writer.
In two weeks, Jon had transformed himself from a first act
Neanderthal in quality control, to a second act creative
intellect.

His life, once a stereotype of bad haircuts, cheap

wristwatches and a dead end job, was now blossoming into a
beautiful new beginning.

Jon’s metamorphosis was complete,

taking every step to dive into the world of writing, except one.
***

Writer’s Block 9

“Tomorrow?” shouted Jon at the radio on the way to work,
spitting out bits of plant leaf from the herbal tea in his
thermos.

The radio announcement continued to play, reminding

everyone to submit their story for a chance to be read by
thousands in the tri-county area.
the deadline?

How could he have forgotten

How could two weeks have gone by so quickly?

He

parked the car haphazardly, sprinting into the building as
frantic thoughts bounced around in his head. How would he meet
the deadline?
The day edged along.

Jon racked his brain for an idea,

pushing off all his meetings to focus on the task.

He scribbled

ideas on a blank sheet of paper, crossing out each one in turn.
How did people do this?
he preferred to read.

Jon paused to think of all the books

Patterson, Clancy, whoever wrote the

Hardy Boys—how did these guys get their ideas?

Jon took another

sip from his thermos, chewing on a leaf that had sneaked through
the hole.
His desk phone buzzed.

The caller ID showed it was Cindy.

“Hi, dear,” he said.
Jon continued to write words on his notepad, scribbling
them out as Cindy talked.

Writer’s Block 10

“...also, Michael asked if I could stop by their place for
a little bit.

I might be home a little late,” she said.

Jon drew a snake, crossing out the eyes.
“OK,” he replied.

“Have fun.”

He hung up, pushing the conversation to the back of his
mind.

I just need one original idea, he thought.

Neither love, nor fate, nor all of creation could stop what
Edward Dickenson had in store for his wife that night.
The line came to him at lunch.
it came.

He didn’t know from where

All he knew was it sure sounded like the start of the

next great American masterpiece.

He scribbled down the sentence

on a quality report slip and shoved the paper in his pocket.
had to get home to write now.

He

Finishing his lunch, Jon hurried

to his desk and scrawled a sign saying he left early.
“How’s everything going, Mr. Writer?” said Cindy, walking
through the door.

She had just returned home as Jon finished

setting up his typewriter.
“Fine, dear,” he replied.

“I don’t know if you saw the

sign hanging on the door—”
“I know, I know,” she said, waving her hand.
you alone.

“I’ll leave

Can’t be interrupting the creative process, can I?”

Writer’s Block 11

“And please shut the door.”

She rolled her eyes before

pulling the door firmly closed.
Jon looked at the photos taped to walls around his office.
The photos were like a gallery of spectators waiting for his
masterpiece to commence.

He tried to channel their talent,

shouting each of their names as he looked at the photos.
“Patterson, Clancy, King, action.”

He set the paper, pushed

the carriage all the way over, and began to type.
“Neither love, nor fate, nor all of creation could stop
what Edward Dickenson had in store for his wife that night.”
Jon stared at the keys.
his wife that night?

What did Edward have in store for

He glanced around the room, reading the

inspirational posters.

Nothing.

He needed structure,

guidelines to aid the creative process.

He stared at his

computer on the other side of the desk.

Maybe there’s a website

to help with this sort of thing, he thought.

He opened the web

browser, searching for sites with writing tips.
Several sites recommended a plot outline.
worth a try.

A plot outline.

Jon decided it was

It sounded like something he remembered from his

high school writing courses.
and began filling it out.

He printed one of the templates

Writer’s Block 12

The structure helped.

He began typing out his story,

starting with the background for Edward.

Jon imagined he was an

uncomplicated man, not pretentious enough to only go by Edward.
He went by Ed with his friends.

Jon continued typing, the

story flowing from his fingers.
“He rturnd hom to find his wif in bd with—”
Jon stared at the paper.

He scrolled down, retyping the

sentence, but the results were the same.

He punched the letter

e, each time watching the arm stall halfway.

He leaned in

close, staring at the arm with his glasses off.

The lever arm,

small and delicate, dangled—snapped from the trigger of the key.
Jon’s heart raced.

What was he going to do?

He reread the

inspirational posters around his room, trying to calm himself
down.

He had only tonight to finish.

it repaired.

There was no time to have

His eyes rested on the computer, once again.

All the greats have to use this soulless device at some
point, he figured.

He grabbed the pages already written and

began retyping them.
“You want me to bring you a sandwich?” asked Cindy, peeking
through the door.

Jon crouched over the screen, hiding the

words from being seen.
“I’m good,” he said shortly, “just some peace and quiet.”

Writer’s Block 13

“Well, OK,” said Cindy, retreating meekly.

Jon relaxed

back from the screen, saying his chant again to refocus.
Perhaps now was a good time to check his progress.

The

competition had required all pieces to be a minimum of two
thousand words and no more than ten thousand.
thought to take a break and count.

He had not even

He hoped he was not over the

limit yet.
He pulled down the tab, hitting the word count button.
Three hundred sixty-two?
at the clock.
hundred words.

It felt like so much more.

He looked

Three hours in and he had written less than four
He glanced at his template.

According to the

personified cartoon pencil in the corner, he was nearly halfway
through.

Jon’s heart began to race again.

What could he do?

He stared at the photos of authors around the room.
their faces had morphed, now showing disdain.
think he could be a writer?

Each of

Who was he to

had copied from the internet.

Jon looked at the picture of Poe he
What was so unique about these

people?
He opened the browser on his computer, and went to a wiki
page for famous authors, scanning for a unifying theme.
Cheever, Williams, Parker, Poe—all the greats had a common

Writer’s Block 14

trait.

All of them were alcoholics.

Alcohol.

That was the

answer.
He crept out of the room, trying not to make the door creak
as he opened it.

He tiptoed down the stairs, past the living

room where his wife had fallen asleep watching the news.
kitchen, Jon opened the cabinet next to the fridge.

In the

The top

shelf was full of dusty half-drunk bottles of various liquors.
He grabbed them all, making his way back to the room.
“To the next great American masterpiece,” he said taking a
swig of each.

He wasn’t sure which alcohol was better for

writing, so he tried them all.

Each one burned as he swallowed.

By the time he made it to the grocery store brand gin, he could
no longer feel his tongue.
and began typing again.

He opened the word processor file

Edward Dickenson’s story came alive

once more.
He had finished his introduction and began setting up the
conflict.

His antagonist was a suave middle aged man, a

professor at a local university, a friend of the family as well.
That was going to be the twist his story.
the friend to be the antagonist.

Nobody ever expects

Jon continued to type, his

body feeling warm from the alcohol.

Every time he felt like he

Writer’s Block 15

was stalling, he would take another sip, alternating between
bottles.
A knock sounded on the door.

“Come in,” said Jon, stuffing

the bottles below the desk as Cindy entered.
“I’m going to bed,” she yawned, coming over to kiss him on
the head.

She sniffed his face as she leaned down.

“Have you

been drinking?”
“Wha?

Whywood you sshlay that,” he slurred.

Cindy shook her head, smiling at him.
late.”

“Don’t stay up too

She closed the door on her way to the bedroom.

Jon stared at his work in front of him.

He was almost to

the twist, less than four pages to go by his calculation.
Edward, having discovered it was his friend having the affair
with his wife, would exact revenge, but how?
clock.

It was nearly midnight.

than twelve hours away.

He looked at the

Though, the deadline was less

Perhaps now was a good time for a

break.
He opened his browser going to his social media page.
Cindy had insisted he make an account so she could link them as
married.

He rarely used it at first, not caring for all the

political rants.

Most of the time, he used it to look at other

people’s photos, trying to get a glimpse into their lives.

Writer’s Block 16

He searched through the photos Cindy had posted.

An alert

at the bottom showed she had been added to a new photo album.
Jon clicked the link and the window opened to a gallery.
was from a friend’s recent birthday party.

It

Jon clicked through

the photos, taking sips from the bottle of whisky to keep his
inebriated state going.

He continued to click, until he came

across a photo of Michael and Cindy at the party.
forgotten Michael and Michelle were there as well.

He had
He scanned

the photo, looking at Michael’s smug smile, his arm around Cindy
in the photo.

Where had he been at this time?

Probably camped

out in the bathroom checking updates on the baseball game.
bathroom was good for at least ten minutes of solitude.
studied Michael’s arm.
where it lay.

The

Jon

His hand was not visible but Jon guessed

He took another sip from the bottle before

capping the top.

He knew what Edward would do.

Jon wrote into the night, taking sips after each paragraph
written.

His vision began to blur, and his hands began to react

more slowly to his thoughts, causing him to rewrite the same
sentence over and over again until he decided to omit it
entirely.

He looked at the clock.

It was four in the morning.

He had just one more scene to go, the resolution to his
masterpiece.

Standing up to stretch, he stumbled from his

Writer’s Block 17

chair, falling to the floor.

The shag carpet was soft and warm

from the heat register that blasted hot air three feet away.

He

closed his eyes, deciding now would be a good time for a quick
nap, a refresh before finishing.

He burped from the acid reflux

causing the cheap liquor to come back up.

As the reflux faded,

he fell asleep.
The light was intense.

His mouth tasted sour.

Jon tried

to wet his tongue, but it stuck to the roof of his mouth as he
moved it.

The headache, tearing through his skull, caused him

to run to the bathroom where, like a hungry newborn, he began to
suck on the faucet, the cold water revitalizing him.
why artists die so young, he figured.

This is

Who can live like this?

“Honey,” Cindy called from downstairs.

“Do you want

breakfast?”
Jon wiped his eyes, and looked at the clock.

It was two

hours to go, and he had yet to review his draft, much less the
last scene.

Hitting the print button, he sent his unfinished

piece to the printer and grabbed the copy to take downstairs
with him.
“Is that it?” asked Cindy.

“Can I read it?”

Jon clenched

the paper tightly, having to will himself to place them on top
of the counter.

Cindy reached for them, reading as she sat at

Writer’s Block 18

the table.

Jon sat there, drinking from his coffee cup, finally

remembering how good caffeine tasted.
Her expressions were unreadable.

Her face was untelling.

He pretended not to watch, keeping a slanted eye on her as he
finished his cup.
“So,” she said, taking a seat next to him, “is there
something on your mind?”
Jon remained silent, looking down at his now empty cup.
Her warm hands embraced his, folding into his like interlocking
puzzle pieces.
“I was thinking,” she said, her eyes looking into his,
“maybe we could go out for dinner tonight.
new masterpiece.

To celebrate your

Just the two of us.”

He felt a strange tingling.

Perhaps it was the caffeine

coursing through his veins for the first time in a while.
Perhaps it was something else.
“Excuse me,” he said, pulling away his seat, “I’ll be right
back.”

He went upstairs and sat back down at the computer, his

work staring back at him, waiting for resolution.
joined in, showing an hour until the deadline.

The clock

With a smile on

his face, he turned off the computer and headed back downstairs.


