He wasn’t even 30. He had been promoted from deputy to Sheriff
two weeks earlier due to the sudden, but not all that
surprising, death of the previous Sheriff. It wasn’t that
Lincoln was a dangerous town. It was quite the opposite. The
last Sheriff spent most of his time at the local Kentucky Fried
Chicken. Cholesterol killed him, not the job. Fortunately for
Billy, this meant a promotion. Unfortunately for Lincoln, he
wasn’t the most qualified replacement.
During his first two weeks on the job and during the three years
he served as deputy, Billy never had to solve a crime more
serious than shoplifting - and even that was rare. This missing
persons case, this was his first real case, and he was excited.
He was also a bit terrified, but he tried to push that part into
the back of his mind. Being scared wasn’t going to help anyone.
Billy arrived at the address given to him by his witness.
The house had a metal roof and a mostly broken porch that
wrapped around the front. It was small and old and, until
recently, abandoned. Most of the houses on this block were.
Billy was surprised to see that someone had taken the time to
mow the yard and put a fresh coat of paint on the outside. This
house certainly stood apart from it’s neighbors.
He gave the door what he hoped was a confident knock and took a
step back. If he was a bigger city cop, he probably would have
brought back up or at least rested his hand on his pistol in
case the suspect turned violent. But, instead, he straightened
his belt and smoothed his hair. He also checked his breath.
Billy was more concerned with being polite than safe. Being safe
didn’t really occur to him.
A woman answered the door. She was younger than she looked.
Circumstance had aged her more quickly than years, but Billy
didn’t notice. It helped that she was black. In a small, white
town like Lincoln, old black women weren’t given much thought.
Her clothes were faded but clean, they all looked hand sewn.
The Sheriff introduced himself and showed the woman his new
badge. She barely even glanced at it before motioning for him to
come inside. Curious about what he would find, he complied and
took a seat on the cracked leather sofa that was just a few Part
One.pagessteps from the door and faced the fireplace.
The woman remained silent and returned to her machine. The house
was wired for electricity but the old Wilcox and Gibbs didn’t

1

Lord, I’m On My Way
need it. It was powered by a treadle. That and your foot.
Billy’s great grandmother had had one just like it. He
recognized the design.
The old woman could feel the Sheriff eying the freshly painted
walls and polished floors. She wondered if he noticed the
photographs. She hoped he did.
The old brick fireplace was surrounded by built-ins that
displayed yellowed photos of the woman’s family. All of them
were dead and had been for some time, but that didn’t keep the
old woman from talking to them. They were the only people she
could confide in. No one else could be trusted. She had learned
that when she was just a girl; when she was just learning what
it meant to be responsible for bringing justice. Back then, what
her mother did frightened her. She didn’t understand the
importance of it. She wished her mother had survived long enough
to witness her change of heart. She thought about that often.
There was a closed door to Billy’s left; he c1ouldn’t tell if it
was locked. He wanted to try the knob, but thought the old woman
would object, so for the time, he kept his seat.
Just as the women finished the last stitch on the suit, the
Sheriff began to speak.
“I was hopin’ I could ask you some questions, ma’am.”
His politeness amused her.
Part One.pages
“Oh Lord, I knows why you are here better than you do.”
She stood and placed the suit she had just finished tailoring in
a small black bag that had been resting beside her machine. She
threw that over her shoulder and grabbed a shovel that was
leaning against the door frame. She motioned for the Sheriff to
follow. Hopeful that his investigation was going somewhere, he
followed her out the door and across the brick street and into
the cemetery.
The old woman led the deputy about half way down the fence
before tossing both her bag and shovel over to the other side.
“This here is where we cross over.”

2

Lord, I’m On My Way

The woman hopped over to the cleanly manicured white side of the
cemetery and continued walking into the darkness. She did not
wait to see if the deputy would follow. Afraid to lose his first
(and only) real lead he anxiously hopped the fence himself. He
grabbed the black bag and shovel the woman had left behind. He
figured that whatever they were meant for, as Sheriff of
Lincoln, he probably aught to know.
The pair made their way towards the front of the cemetery, to
where the freshest bodies were buried. It was dark, and hard to
see and the Sheriff would have walked into the newly dug grave
if the old woman hadn’t held out her hand to stop him.
The deputy took a flash light from his belt and turned it on. He
was horrified by what he saw but couldn’t make any sense of it.
The old woman was kneeling before him. She had pulled a man’s
suit from her bag and was dressing a badly decomposed body in
what had once been a pretty nice suit. It was modern and
obviously new but had been altered. The suit was originally made
for a man much larger than the one it was fit for now.
By the time the woman had finished her work, the body was laid
out neatly in the coffin below. Bones peeked out of each jacket
sleeve and a cracked skull sat where the head should have been.
The woman, seemingly pleased with herself, closed the coffin lid
and began pushing dirt back into the hole she had dug up earlier
that night. Billy couldn’t believe his eyes.
“Where’s the body that was meant to be here? The one they buried
here this mornin’.”
Without responding, the woman picked up her things and motioned
for him to follow. He was pretty sure he was in over his head
and was starting to wonder if this crazy old woman had anything
at all to do with his missing person’s case.
“Listen here, you’re gonna tell me what’s going on or we aren’t
goin’ any further.”
The old woman let out a sigh. She was anxious to continue her
work.
“Oh Sherrif, if you’re wantin’ answers bad enough, you’ll
follow.”

3

Lord, I’m On My Way
And he did. She wasn’t surprised.
When they
weeds and
cemetery.
literally

reached the fence, they hopped over, back into the
unkept graves that characterized the black side of the
Inequality didn’t end with life for these people, it
followed them to their graves.

After walking for a while, they reached the edge of another
grave. This one had no headstone. A man, clean and shaven and
mostly naked lay at the bottom in a pine box that was much older
than he was.
Billy raised his flashlight to the woman’s face. Her black,
wrinkled skin was barely illuminated by the light. Only her eyes
shone clearly. She had no remorse for what she had done. The
Sheriff was sure of it. It was time for those answers.
"So, ya dug up this po' man an' dumped him in this makeshift
grave?”
“There ain’t ‘nothin make shift about it. Why’s it good enough
for that black man, but not this white fella’?”
“Ma’am, this idn’t about race. It’s about decency. It’s about
lettin’ people be after they die.”
“It wasn’t my aim to disrupt his sleep. I’m just trying da put
right what’s been wrong for so long.”
“The way I see it, the white man had ‘nough comfort in life to
give up a little in death.”
The Sherrif was beginning to feel uncomfortable. He felt for his
pistol. It was still in it’s holster. He probably should have
brought his deputy along. Too late for that now.
After filling the second grave, the old woman patted the
resulting mound of soil with her shovel.
Billy had gotten side tracked and he knew it.
“Listen here, this grave robbin’... swappin’. Whatever it is
you’re doin’ here, it ain’t why I came.”
“You here about the boy.”

4

Lord, I’m On My Way
At the mention of the boy, Billy’s pace quickened. Perhaps this
wasn’t a crazy goose chase after all.
“Yes, ma’am.

You seen ‘em?”

The old woman’s head dropped slightly.
“Yeah, I seen ‘em. Come on.”
The woman grabbed the shovel and began walking towards the woods
that occupied most of the black side of the cemetery. The deputy
followed, anxious and excited to be getting closer to solving
his first real case. He put his fears and bad feelings aside and
made his way towards the woods with the old woman as his guide.
A half of a mile in, they reached a small, flat patch of grass
surrounded by trees. Empty beer bottles littered the ground.
This is where the local kids came to drink. Billy had been out
here before, keeping the high school kids in line. He knew the
place fairly well. They were far from town. The woman’s pace was
slowing. He felt like they were getting close.
“Did ya see the boy here? Did ya see Justin Evers?”
She had seen the boy. She wished he hadn’t wandered so far away
from his friends. She wished he had listened to her tell him to
stay back, but he didn’t.
The woman motioned for the Sherrif to follow and he did. Solving
the mystery of a missing teen was a great way for a young
Sheriff to make a name for himself, especially in a small town
like Lincoln.
They stopped after another quarter mile or so. The old woman
held her hand to her ear.
“Shhh.. Listen”
The Sheriff froze when he heard it. A soft whimpering. A few
yards away at most. The deputy sprinted forward. The old woman
stayed where she was.
“That you, Son?”

5

Lord, I’m On My Way
The woman watched the Sheriff run to the edge of the grave she
had dug the night before. Her hand, sweaty with anticipation,
tightened around the shovels wooden handle.
She wasn’t fast, but she was strong, and the shovel was sharp.
The sheriff fell head first into the grave. The woman was
surprised and disappointed that he didn’t break his neck. It
would have been a much nicer way to go.
She wiped the blood from her shovel and began filling a grave
for the third time that night. She was tired but couldn’t leave
the job unfinished. She would be gone by morning.
The woman hoped it wouldn’t take too long for the boy and the
sheriff to suffocate under all that dirt. She wasn’t a monster.
She didn’t want them to suffer. She just couldn’t have them
interfering with her work. When she was done, and all the
screaming had stopped, she prayed. And, when she was done with
that, she headed home.
The next morning, the woman boarded a bus headed to Fairhope, a
small town in Alabama. No one on the bus noticed her or the old
rusty shovel sticking out of her bag. She wasn’t surprised.

6


