Every afternoon, after studying for hours in the college library, I step off the city bus and my dog
sprints the fifty yards from my house to the bus stop. I kneel and offer my chest for him to slam
into with affection, which always involves enthusiastic, joy-filled kisses that become tongue-inmy-mouth ravishments if I forget to raise my head up to the sky when I laugh. When he’s
around, I can never laugh with my mouth closed. When he’s around, I laugh a lot.
But today, Rex lingers in front of my house and takes slow, absent-minded steps in my
direction, his loyalty torn by something across the highway—Little Tyler Calhoun, standing in
front of his fence, across from my house, wearing his big brother’s letterman jacket even though
his ten year old body drowns in it. He’s holding something in his hand and staring at my dog. My
palms tingle and ache at the same time, and I remember having that weird feeling in them once
before long ago. I know that means something is not right. My dog doesn’t like Tyler.

Tyler makes eye contact with me. His head starts to turn, but his eyes stay on me. He
moves his head so gradually that it feels like I’m watching him in slow motion. When his head
stops, he shifts his eyes, up the highway.
The bus has driven far enough down the road for the noise of its engines to be overtaken
by the roar of an eighteen wheeler traveling in the opposite direction, coming for me, Rex and
Tyler. I realize what’s in his hand. It’s the purple bunny Rex never takes out of his dog house.
The lopsided smile that climbs up Little Tyler’s cheek makes the hairs on the back of my
neck bristle. As the truck flies past me, he raises the toy in the air and flings it into the highway.
Rex darts into the road.
“Rex! No!” I drop my backpack and run.
###
My first memory of Tyler’s older brother, Capers, was playing Yankees versus Confederates
when we were too young for preschool. In summer we played with water balloons; in winter we
used sling shots and rocks no bigger than peas. Growing up on our little island in South Carolina,
the Yankees weren’t the good guys and the war wasn’t referred to as the Civil War—it was the
War of Northern Aggression.
We wore scratchy blue and grey t-shirts from the Salvation Army (sometimes they’d
have funny old-timey logos like “Keep on Truckin!”) until we started middle school, when
Capers’ mother graduated us to formal blue and grey button-downs. The grey shirt went to the
winner, which meant they got to wear it in the next battle. I may as well have nicknamed that
grey sucker Moby Dick. I was luckier than Ahab, though, since I speared that shirt two times and
lived to tell about it. The grey would be handed over as soon as the battle ended, and both times I
won it at the end of the day, allowing me to keep it overnight. In front of my full-length mirror I

Under the Stars
Page 3
buttoned that grey shirt and felt light-headed from its majesty. I entered a state of euphoria, drydrunk from the strength I imagined the shirt could bestow upon me. I wore the shirt to bed; on
those nights I didn’t have any nightmares.
In our freshman year of high school, we played our last game. The forest floor was
covered in friable, autumnal leaves and it was impossible to get close without crushing a million
of them and alerting the enemy. There was a small fawn in the woods, and when I was finally
positioned to attack Capers, something spooked the deer, and it passed within ten feet of him—a
perfect distraction. When my kill shot left my sling, my foot slipped on a patch of wet leaves,
causing my rock to graze Capers’ arm. Startled, he turned and released his own rock, smashing
me square in the forehead.
“Jesus Christ, Katie. Are you all right?” His hands cradled my face as he stared at the
damage. “There’s so much blood.”
“I’m fine. Honest. It probably looks worse than it is.”
Capers pulled off his confederate shirt, then his undershirt, and slammed it on my wound.
“Ouch! Are you serious?”
“We’ve got to put pressure on it. Can you walk?”
“Not without my eyes. And you’re hurting me.”
“Here.” He took the shirt away, wadded it up into a colossal ball, and placed it on my
face as if he were kissing me with it. “How’s that?”
“Better.”
We went to his house because it was empty; mine had my grandmother in it, and if she’d
seen me in that state she would’ve given him serious hell. Capers’ Mom was a nurse, so he did

Under the Stars
Page 4
all the right things: washed the blood off, made me hold wrapped ice to my forehead, and applied
some sticky strips to keep the gash closed. When he was done, he grabbed a hand mirror.
“It looks great. Bet I won’t even get a scar.”
“I feel terrible.”
“It’s not your fault. I shouldn’t have snuck up on you.”
“Yeah, well.” He stared at the floor, his back hunched. His dejected posture was painful
for me to see, maybe because he always wore his confidence in his shoulders—straight and back.
“Don’t worry. I’m totally fine. Look.” I forced a smile into my eyes (since fake smiles
never reach the eyes and I didn’t want him to know I was lying). I blinked and his lips were hard
on mine. I tried to push him away, but he wouldn’t budge. I stood up and broke the seal.
“Katie, I’m sorry.” His hands reached towards me.
My mind screamed that he was about to kiss me again. I backed away from him. “That’s
okay. Just don’t do it again.”
“I won’t.” He looked at the floor and I realized he’d left the grey shirt lying in the woods.
His chest and arms were bare, but muscular. I couldn’t remember him looking like this when
we’d been swimming in the river a few months before. Now, he had the torso of a man.
We kept our distance until the following summer, when Capers and his friends roped me
into a touch football game with the promise of pulled pork sandwiches at half time.
On what ended up being the last play, I turned my head to receive the ball when someone
tackled me.
“Goddammit!” I opened my eyes to see Capers’ face blocking the sky.
“Are you okay?” He was out-of-breath, and not moving off of me. He was so close, his
eyes the color of the sky after a rain, his smell an odd combination of sweat and cinnamon gum.

Under the Stars
Page 5
I kissed him, hard and quick. When I dropped my head back to the ground, his mouth
hung open and his brow was furrowed. He smiled, caressed the sides of my face and touched his
lips to mine.
The rest of that summer we snuck out most every night and met at the river. We
borrowed the dilapidated rowboat that our drunken neighbor used for fishing on Sundays. We
left the oars in the boat, not caring where we drifted, lying on our backs, staring at the sky. My
favorite nights were the moonless ones. Though harder to maneuver the beaten-down path to the
dock, the star-filled sky was more spectacular without the moon outshining its neighbors.
Two days before high school graduation, we were lying in the boat, each of us on a
different plank, gazing at the stars, holding hands. Our arms resembled a hammock swinging in
the breeze.
“Is your Mom coming up?” he asked.
“She threatened to, but I hope not. I don’t want to see Jim.”
“I can’t believe I’ve never met him. What’s so great about selling time shares in Florida
anyway? Don’t they sell those here in Charleston?” He squeezed my hand.
“Yeah, they do. I think it might be me she doesn’t want him to be around.”
“Why? Because you’re so damn beautiful?”
“Yeah, right. Where’s Cassiopeia?”
“You know where it is, you just like saying Cassiopeia.”
“I wish my name was Cassiopeia. It’s such a beautiful name. Exotic.”
“I prefer Katie. Katie’s a beautiful name.” He tugged my hand, his cue for wanting me to
come to him and let him kiss me.
“Tell me again about your body shop.”

Under the Stars
Page 6
He stopped pulling my hand. “After graduation, I’ll work for Max full-time at the shop.
I’ll save every cent for the down payment for Big John’s building on Riverside. On my days off,
he’s going to let me work over there to bring it up to code, so there’s nothing to stop me from
buying it.”
“And when will you buy it?”
“Three years. Four if you’ll marry me.”
I inhaled too fast and choked on my saliva. I sat up. He was instantly next to me. He
pounded my back, trying to whack me into normalcy. “Are you all right?”
I coughed for thirty seconds before answering him. “I’m okay. Just inhaled some saliva.”
I moved to the opposite plank, the one he’d been using before, and lied down.
“It wasn’t what I said, was it?”
“No. Of course not.”
“So when do you think would be a good time to ask you?”
“I don’t know.”
“Help me out here, Katie.” I couldn’t detect any of the joy that had been in his face when
he’d been dreaming about the body shop.
“I don’t know. I don’t. I don’t know when I’ll be ready.”
He nodded, snatched up the oars, rowed us back to the dock, tied up the boat, and walked
away.
I jogged to catch up to him. “Capers.” He turned, grabbed and kissed me. His hands in
my hair, his tongue full in my mouth. His passion was contagious, and a heat started inside of
me. He slid his hand under the waistband of my shorts, and groped between my legs. His fingers
made me feel dirty, and my stepfather’s too-close eyes flashed in my mind.

Under the Stars
Page 7
“Stop.” I twisted out of his grasp.
Capers’ eyes seemed shiny, but he didn’t cry. He lowered his head, coughed, and stood
motionless for a minute. He sighed, pulled a tiny purple box out of his pocket, got down on one
knee, stared into my eyes, and opened the box. It was a diamond ring. “Katie, will you marry
me?” He spoke these words with no more than a hint of hope.
Bile shot up my throat. His expression changed from hope, to devastation, but ended on
anger. I opened my mouth, but nothing came out. He snapped the box closed and walked away.
He didn’t come to our graduation. He didn’t come to any parties. Instead of coming to
church on Sunday, he was on a bus, heading to basic training in North Carolina. His final
destination would be Afghanistan. By the time I asked his mother where he’d gone, it was too
late.
For a month, I went to bed angry. The next two months, I cried myself to sleep. I wrote
letters. He never replied. His mother stopped returning my hello waves. One time, Little Tyler
was with her when I waved for what had to be the hundredth time. He returned my wave, until
she slapped his hand down and half-dragged him into the house. I didn’t bother trying again.
One night, as I laid my head down on my pillow, and the usual thoughts of what I’d done
began their routine trek around my brain, I decided that I wasn’t going to cry any more. And I
didn’t. I didn’t cry when I got an average grade on my first college paper that I’d spent hours
writing. I didn’t cry when I watched “Steel Magnolias,” my favorite tearjerker. I didn’t cry when
I saw Tyler running away from my house after vandalizing it with rotten eggs. An invisible knife
had removed my heart, and it caused my stagnant blood to harden until I no longer had to try to
not feel anymore. I simply didn’t.
###

Under the Stars
Page 8
Capers’ helicopter was shot down in the mountains of Afghanistan. He was officially categorized
as missing in action. I obsessed over three possibilities: he was wounded and being cared for by
friendly Afghanis; he was being held and tortured by not-so-friendly Afghanis; or, he was dead.
The first time I was alone after hearing about his helicopter, I couldn’t cry. I imagined him being
beaten and tortured by dark, bearded men who said they would stop if I could cry just one tear
for Capers. But I couldn’t.
###
Rex had lived a carefree, outdoor life, scrounging for his food, taking care of himself, before
landing in the dog pound and getting put up for adoption to any Tom, Dick or Harry with twentyfive dollars. After the family who rented the house next door to me adopted him, it was obvious
to anyone who wasn’t stone deaf that he didn’t know proper indoor dog etiquette. All hours of
the day and night that mom would scream: “Goddammit Rex! You do that outside. Outside! Get
outside right now!” I pictured her cleaning up poop and pee and finding their raw chicken pulled
from the kitchen counter, half-eaten. “For Christ sake, Rex, stop sitting there like a dog!” Not
only was that dog not long for indoor living, he risked being not long for breathing in front of
that woman. The father and the two school-age kids built Rex the worst excuse for a dog house,
nailed his name to a board above the jagged, cut out door, and he never went inside that house
again.
One day, my neighbors disappeared. I didn’t know Rex had been left behind until he
followed me on my walk from the bus stop to my house a week later. He jumped on my leg, but I
shooed him away. He reeked of the island dump, where he probably scavenged for food.
On my last day of my first semester of college, I couldn’t help but feel happy because I
knew I’d aced all of my final exams. After I stepped off the bus, I spotted Rex behind the short

Under the Stars
Page 9
chain link fence in his yard. “Rex, here.” I tossed my partially-eaten apple in his direction. With
a few steps head start, Rex bounded over the fence and was on my leftover apple in seconds. He
held it in his mouth, his head tilted towards me and the sky, marching like a proud soldier in a
parade on V-E Day. He escorted me all the way to my front door, still holding the apple, still
happily prancing. As soon as I shut my door, he ran away.
That weekend I had to go to the mall, and the pet store was next to my favorite shoe shop.
It was easy to lure Rex into my yard with a fetch ball; the wash basin was another story. I tried
bribing him with pieces of dog food, but they weren’t scrumptious enough to tempt him into the
ominous bath basin. I took some of my grandmother’s leftover flank steak, cut it into pieces,
stuck my steak-smelling fingers on Rex’s nose so he knew what his reward was for acquiescing,
and held one piece over the water. He jumped in, snatched the steak, and tried to jump back out.
He didn’t weigh much, and he was still wearing a collar, so I latched on to that and bathed him
one-handed.
When I started toweling him off, a boy behind me said, “Why bother? That dog eats at
the dump. I’ve seen him.”
It was Little Tyler Calhoun, holding a basketball. “Hi, Tyler. How are you?”
He squinted his eyes and wrinkled up his nose, reminding me of Capers the day I
accidentally startled a skunk. He jerked up the side of his mouth. “Whatever.” He walked away,
bouncing his basketball.
While Rex played with his new ball, I went to his dog house and swapped his filthy quilt
with one I’d bought at Goodwill. I stared at his poor excuse for a home, trying to figure out how
to make it more habitable. Obviously when they’d built the house, the father had allowed his kids
to nail the shingles wherever they wanted. But I couldn’t let a clean Rex sleep on a new-to-him

Under the Stars
Page 10
quilt inside a leaky house. I cut open a lawn bag, covered the roof with it, and duct-taped it to the
sides of the house, creating a waterproof dog shanty.
We fell into a routine. He would wait outside my front porch door for his breakfast.
After, he’d walk and stand with me at the bus stop. In the afternoon, he’d sit outside my house,
and when I stepped off the bus, he’d run full sprint to me, smash into my chest, and cover my
nose and mouth with kisses. I never could figure out why he waited in front of my house. Maybe
he enjoyed the anticipation. If I were him, I would’ve waited at the bus stop.
I started studying on the front porch so Rex could hang out with me. We’d snuggle in the
old quilt kept out there, Rex curling himself behind my bent legs, sighing when he achieved his
perfect nestle spot. At bedtime, he’d retire to my backyard, into the dog house I’d spent a whole
weekend building and painting for him, and cuddle up with the purple bunny I’d given him, the
one that never left his little house.
A few weeks later, I went with a friend to see some stupid romantic comedy and I cried.
###
Yesterday morning, when my grandmother and I were leaving for church, we saw two soldiers
decked out in their fancy dress gear, ringing Tyler’s mother’s doorbell. It was a ten minute drive
to church, but neither one of us said what we both knew.
That day’s sermon focused on living in the moment, but all I could think about as I wiped
tears away was how I would never again see the blue of Capers’ eyes, or taste the cinnamon on
his lips.
###
I stop sprinting when the tractor trailer zooms past. I can’t look at the road, so I cover my eyes
with my hands, but I can’t stop imagining Rex’s body smeared on the pavement. My life will be

Under the Stars
Page 11
over if I have to see his destroyed body. Tyler’s life will be over. I remember the new spiked
collar I bought Rex as a joke last week, so he’d look tough. Is that all I’ll have left of him? Am I
going to have to wash his blood and pieces of him off of it?
I crumple to the ground. There’s a pain in my chest and I know it’s my heart ripping.
Tears burst out of me. I sob harder when I remember the feeling of Rex smashing into me at the
bus stop, his kisses, his soft fur. No one but Rex has ever loved me unconditionally. No one else.
Not ever.
Two things hit me at once: why didn’t Rex yelp? Why didn’t the truck driver hit his
brakes?
After I force myself to stand, I look down the highway. With all the tears in my eyes,
there are multiple blurry roads. I squint until many become one. I scream.
I look in both directions before I sprint across the road. I stare at Rex who is alive, his
purple bunny in his mouth, his wonky tail and entire back end vibrating with an excited wag.
“Rex!” I pick him up. Rock him. Squeeze him until he makes that weird sighing sound
that makes me think he loves me.
Tyler stands dumfounded, his mouth slack-jawed.
“Tyler?” He doesn’t blink, so I say his name again.
“What?”
“If you ever come near my dog again, you will regret it for the rest of your life. Do you
understand?”
He stares at me with a blank expression. He closes his mouth.
“Do you understand?”
His head goes up and down just enough for me to know he’s nodding.

Under the Stars
Page 12
“Get out of my sight. I don’t ever want to see you again.”
He kicks up dirt as he shuffles away.
I cannot stop kissing my dog. I kiss him as I check the highway for cars before crossing,
as I jog to our porch, as I wrap our quilt around us.
I don’t know if Rex understands, but he allows me to hold him for hours. I don’t let him
retreat to his dog house. I make him cuddle with me all night, under the quilt on our porch, under
the stars that shine on us.


