He  had  done  this  work  before.    
Caretaking.      
Most   of   the   time   the   work   took   him   a   way   outside   of   Pinnacle   County.   To  

farm   country   or   some   far-­‐off   suburb.      Last   summer,   for   example,   he   had   made   a  
good  bit  looking  after  two  square  blocks  of  new  homes  at  the  very  edge  of  Pinnacle  
County.   They   had   not   been   sold   –   except   for   a   few   –   and   the   builder   was   worried  
that  someone   would   come   and   rip  out  the   granite   countertops   or   the   exotic   wooden  
floors.    Or  even  worse,  squatters  would  prepare  food  on  the  granite  countertops  and  
walk  on  the  wooden  floors.  Henry  spent  all  summer  moving  from  massive  house  to  
massive   house   with   his   little   camp   stove   and   bundle   of   linens,   setting   up   timers,  
watering  gardens,  moving  a  few  cars  (supplied  by  the  builder)  and  generally  trying  
to  bring  a  luxury  ghost  town  to  fake  life.    It  was  harder  work  than  it  sounded.  It  kept  
you  busy  and  on  a  schedule.  But  it  paid.    
  

The  current  job  was  something  very  different.  He  was  now  in  the  middle  of  

Pinnacle  County  in  a  foot-­‐dragging  neighborhood.    His  job  was  to  watch  some  1200  
square   feet   of   house   and   the   little   city   lot   it   sat   upon.   There   was   a   list   of   minor  
repairs   and   improvements   to   be   made.      All   of   it   was   chargeable   to   Mr.   Michael  
Williams   who   also   gave   him   a   modest   monthly   check.      Mr.   Williams   had   inherited  
the  property  –138  Glenwood  –  from  his  grandmother,  his  mother  being  impossible  
to   locate   after   she   had   moved   to   the   Baltimore   area   after   an   abbreviated   stay   at   a  

rehabilitation   center.   Williams   had   gotten   Henry’s   name   from   a   Mr.   Dunn   whose  
farm  Henry  had  caretaked  a  winter  ago.      
Henry   had   only   met   Mr.   Williams   twice.      Both   times   he   seemed   a   little  
chagrined  about  owning  property  in  the  City.  At  their  first  meeting  he  was  all  talk  of  
selling  the  house  quickly.    The  second  time  Mr.  Williams  seemed  more  at  peace  with  
his   new   acquisition.   He   made   mention   of   renting   the   place   or   giving   it   to   his   son.  
“Give  the  kid  a  little  stake,  “  he  said  before  he  rolled  away  in  a  green  Buick  Regal.    
  

Odd  as  it  was  to  be  caretaking  a  little  house  in  the  middle  of  the  city,  Henry  

didn’t   mind   the   work.   Utilities   were   on   and   paid   for.   He   drank   hot   coffee   each  
morning.  At  night  he  used  a  giant  microwave  –  the  size  of  a  TV  -­‐-­‐-­‐  to  heat  his  dinner.  
The   repairs   were   basic   and   he   had   the   tools   he   needed.   The   second   floor   was  
looking   better   and   he   had   only   been   at   it   two   weeks.   There   was   an   old   and   heavy  
television   in   the   front   room.   It   got   cable.   (Bless   you   Mr.   Williams.)      Henry   added  
canvas  picnic  chair  and  passed  his  evenings  in  peace.    
  

At   least   most   of   the   time.      The   neighborhood   –   which   he   had   dubbed  

Glenwood   –had   what   the   news   people   called   a   declining   population.      More   people  
left  than  moved  in.  By  Henry’s  estimates,  the  remaining  population  of  Glenwood  had  
taken   this   to   heart   and   decided   to   make   up   for   their   decreasing   gross   population   by  
increasing   the   net   cacophony   proportionally.   Though   small   in   number   Glenwood  
residents   were   deep   in   per   capita   grievances.   The   few   occupied   houses   and   the  
street   between   them   crackled   each   night   with   business   disputes,   marital   disputes,  
we-­‐are-­‐not   married   disputes,   get-­‐in-­‐this-­‐house-­‐disputes,   claims   to   moneys   owed  
and   threats   of   repercussions   arising   from   any   and   all   of   them.   Nothing   ever   came   of  

it   but   maybe   a   rise   in   collective   blood   pressure.      Of   course   the   neighborhood’s  
children  now  had  a  whole  selection  of  nasty  behaviors  and  prime  insults  from  which  
they   could   pick   and   chose.      This   was   an   important   arsenal   if   the   were   to   stay   in  
Glenwood,  or  in  a  Glenwood,  for  the  rest  of  their  lives.    
*****  
  

Henry   realized   his   frequent   musings   about   the   job,   past   jobs,   Glenwood,   its  

inhabitants   young   and   old,   and   its   happenings   were   all   evidence   that   the   Disease  
was  still  with  him.    That,  by  itself,  was  not  cause  for  concern.  It  had  been  with  him  
for  decades.  A  briny  wet  towel  that  he  wore  like  an  invisible  shroud.  It  had  made  his  
appearance   on   many   a   morning   a   dicey   proposition,   darkened   his   dreams,  
smothered  a  few  relationships  and  even  got  him  kicked  out  of  junior  college.  (That’s  
right.  Junior  college.)    And  that  was  just  the  stuff  Henry  could  put  his  finger  on.      
No   the   Disease   was   with   him.   Henry   faithfully   took   the   pill   prescribed   by   the  
VA,   but   he   knew   that   his   only   true   ally   in   his   battle   was   the   Work.      Each   morning   he  
could   arise   with   the   expectation   of   progress.      A   list   of   matters   necessary   to  
caretaking.   Matters   that   required   a   schedule,   an   organized   mind.      Like   it   or   not,  
battling   the   Disease   made   you   a   Serious   Man.   Forced   you   to   cogitate   over   small  
things.   Required   that   problems   be   resolved,   and   the   environment   be   controlled   as  
much  as  possible.  To  stay  ahead  of  the  Disease  you  had  to  patrol  and  progress.    With  
a  cup  of  hot  coffee  in  the  morning  Henry  plotted  his  moves,  assessed  his  prospects.  
Measured   twice   and   cut   once.   The   Disease   fed   on   sloppiness,   carelessness   and  
failures.    It  threw  them  back  at  you  as  bedizened  examples  of  both  its  power  and  the  

defective   nature   of   your   own   soul.      The   Work   was   Henry’s   Wall   Against   Invaders.  
Hot  coffee  was  just  a  bonus.    
  

With  the  Work  in  mind,  Henry  climbed  off  of  his  mattress  Monday  morning.  

He   put   on   his   working   jeans   and   a   hoodie   he   bought   at   a   Salvation   Army   store   in  
Newberg,   outside   Pinnacle   County.      He   didn’t   like   the   team   (a   perennial   NFC   also-­‐  
ran)   but   he   thought   he   looked   good   in   the   colors.      The   night   before,   he   had   watched  
Sportscenter,  drank  a  single  beer  and  went  to  bed  in  one  of  the  upstairs  bedrooms.  
(Always   safer   on   the   second   floor.   It   bought   you   time.)   Except   for   a   long   and   very  
public  dispute  a  few  houses  down  about  whether  being  home  at  ten  o’clock  required  
presence   in   the   actual   house   or   just   the   front   lawn,   the   night   was   uneventful.   And  
Henry  didn’t  see  the  argument  as  unreasonable.  
  

By  all  accounts  and  prognostications,  Monday’s  weather  was  not  suitable  for  

outdoor   work   in   the   gardens   or   shrubs.      Henry   re-­‐filed   that   work   in   his   mental  
calendar.   Pushed   it   to   the   back   of   spring   and   moved   painting   into   its   place.   Painting  
the  two  upstairs  bedrooms  would  require  a  trip  to  the  home  improvement  store  to  
get   paint,   brushes,   rollers,   and   trays.   The   hardwoods   in   the   rooms   also   merited   a  
serious  drop  cloth,  not  just  newspapers  on  the  floor.      
Henry   collected   his   wallet.   He   then   placed   his   keys   and   his   billfold   on   the  
cracked  Formica  counter.  He  removed  his  cellphone  from  his  coat  pocket  and  hung  
the   coat   on   the   back   of   a   kitchen   chair.   Crooked.   Henry   pulled   one   shoulder   until  
symmetry  was  achieved.      
  

First   his   morning   phone   calls   to   Leon   and   Sharon.      Contact   with   Leon   and  

Sharon   on   a   daily   basis   was   essential.   Although   they   were   grown,   and   much   more  

partial  to  their  mother  than  to  Henry  (see  above  about  relationships),  Henry  called  
each  one  at  least  once  a  day.  It  was  part  of  his  offensive  against  the  Disease.  He  knew  
it  travelled  in  families.  One  look  at  the  short  and  toxic  lives  of  his  parents  confirmed  
that.   He   had   to   be   vigilant   about   Leon   and   Sharon.   He   remained   ever   watchful   for  
signs   of   the   Disease   in   them.      The   cellphone   was   not   perfect,   but   you   could   hear  
tones,  or  no  tones  (“flat  affect”  said  the  brochure  at  the  VA).  You  could  tell  whether  
commitments  were  being  met,  whether  a  life  was  being  lived.    
  

With   Sharon   it   was   easy.      Henry   would   ask   about   her   children.      If   he   heard  

the   familiar   lilt   in   her   voice   or   even   a   little   exasperation,   that   was   a   good   sign.    
Business  as  usual.    Both  trials  and  tribulations  bubbling  to  the  surface.  Leon  was  a  
different   story.      Like   a   lot   of   the   boys   he   had   grown   up   with,   Leon   was   fiercely  
protective   of   what   he   termed   “his   business.”      He   would   offer   the   most   ambiguous  
answers  to  simple  questions.    Worse,  Leon’s  active  social  life  often  left  him  sounding  
hungover   or   very   tired.   Hard   signs   to   read.      Henry   was   always   left   with   the  
unresolved   issue   of   whether   his   son   was   flat-­‐affecting   him   or   if   he   simply   didn’t  
appreciate   calls   from   a   been-­‐gone-­‐so-­‐long-­‐and-­‐contributed-­‐so-­‐little-­‐and-­‐calling   -­‐
after-­‐so-­‐late-­‐a-­‐night  father.    Talking  to  Leon  was  like  trying  to  interpret  the  graffiti  
sprayed   on   Glenwood’s   long   abandoned   schools.   Good   luck.      But   this   work   occupied  
him.    
That   morning,   Sharon   had   come   off   easily,   as   expected.      A   little   cold   in   one   of  
the  children  had  left  her  tired  and  frustrated.    But  she  had  the  matter  in  hand.    All  
was  well.    Leon  was  Leon.  He  had  obviously  decided  that  Henry  was  a  mind  reader.    
He  answered  every  question  by  saying  “Well  you  know…”    Not  a  great  sign.  Those  

kind   of   lazy   and   resigned   comments   merited   special   note   in   Henry’s   mind.   The  
conversation   took   a   turn   for   the   better   though.         Leon   announced   he   had   to   get   to  
work.  He  had  a  meeting.  Good  sign.  Keeping  appointments.  Looking  to  make  a  dollar.    
Leon’s  business  was  in  order.    
Sailing  atop  a  verified  even  keel,  Henry  locked  up  the  house  and  unlocked  his  
truck.    He  backed  on  to  Glenwood  and  pivoted  toward  Highland  Avenue.      He  nudged  
the   car   past   the   vacant   lot   immediately   next   to   his   adopted   home.      The   city   had  
razed   the   house   that   was   once   there.   But   no   one   had   filled   in   the   basement.      Mud  
now   covered   what   looked   like   checkerboard   tiling,   and   the   hole   acted   like   a   magnet  
for   debris   blowing   around   the   neighborhood.      If   you   looked   close   you   could   see   a  
card  table  and  an  old  weight  bench  half  buried.  Good  intentions  down  there.      
As   Henry   turned   his   attention   back   to   the   street,   he   slowed   to   a   coast   and  
applied  the  brakes.  Standing  on  the  lawn  in  front  of  the  very  next  house  was  a  young  
man.  Maybe  thirteen  or  fourteen.  Baggy  jeans  and  a  red  t-­‐shirt  that  hung  almost  all  
the  ways  to  his  knees.    He  was  gangly,  but  Henry  could  sense  he  was  filling  out  in  the  
chest  and  shoulder.      He  stood  with  his  legs  spread  shoulder  width  apart.  His  white  
sneakers  looked  like  giant  pale  beetles.  The  boy  was  staring  at  the  house  in  front  of  
him.   He   looked   like   he   was   slowly   summoning   the   mental   power   to   levitate   the  
shabby  bungalow.  
Henry   slowed   to   a   roll   and,   after   a   half   second’s   hesitation,   lowered   the  
passenger  side  window.      
“Need  some  help  young  fella?”  
Young  Fella  turned  around  and  looked  into  the  cab  of  the  truck.      

“Who  you  talkin’  to,  old  man?”  
Henry  let  it  roll  over  him.    (The  Disease  loved  anger.)  
“Talkin’   to   you   young   fella.      Looks   like   you   need   some   help.   If   that’s   right,   I  
might   be   able   to   help.      If   not,   I’ll   be   on   my   way.”         Henry   resisted   the   urge   to   lean  
over  toward  the  passenger  side  of  the  car.    Stopping  was  one  thing,  but  no  need  to  
appear  eager.    Young  Fella  will  do  what  he  wants.  
“I  ain’t  got  a  key.  Can’t  get  in  the  house.”    
“Well,  when  will  your  moms  be  home?”  
A  shrug.    Young  Fella  was  now  looking  up  and  down  the  truck.      
“You  got  a  phone?    You  can  call  her?”  
“Out  of  juice.    I  ‘d  a  done  that.”    He  was  knitting  his  eyebrows  now,  looking  up  
and  down  the  street.    
“Do   you   know   where   she   is?”      Henry   was   not   blind   to   the   fact   that   at   nine  
o’clock  on  a  Monday  morning,  the  child  should  be  in  school.  
“She  work  up  at  Griffins.”  
“The  one  off  the  highway.”  
A  nod.    
“Well,  I’m  heading  there  for  some  supplies.  I  can  give  you  a  ride  up  there.  You  
can  get  a  key  and  I’ll  drop  you  off  at  home.”  
Young  Fella  shifted  his  eyes  to  the  ground.    Henry  realized  that,  these  days,  
the   offer   of   a   ride   by   a   middle-­‐aged   stranger   was   not   something   any   child   would  
rush  to  accept.  
“Tell  you  what.  You  got  her  number?    I’ll  call  her  and  tell  we  are  coming.”  

A  pause.  Then  digits.  
  
Henry  called  the  number  and  got  the  standard  phone  company  voicemail.    He  
left   his   name,   number   and   said   he   was   driving   to   Griffins   with   the   phone   owner’s  
son.    
Young  Fella  kept  his  eyes  on  the  passenger  side  rear  view  mirror  the  whole  
ride   out   to   Griffins.      He   sat   low   in   the   seat,   like   he   was   hoping   not   to   be   seen.   He  
didn’t  even  question  the  steady  stream  of  R&B  hits  from  the  60s  and  70s  coming  out  
of  the  truck’s  radio.  The  OJays.  The  Ohio  Players.  Marvin.  
They  arrived  at  Griffins.  The  store’s  enormous  parking  lot  had  only  a  few  cars  
in   it,   and   Henry   was   able   to   park   fairly   close   to   the   store’s   yawning   entrance.         Once  
they  got  inside,  Henry  guided  Young  Fella  to  the  customer  service  counter.  Behind  it  
was   an   enormous   woman,   maybe   a   little   younger   than   Henry.      She   wore   a   red  
Griffins  smock  over  a  white  t-­‐shirt.    She  had  deep  purple  lipstick  that,  Henry  noticed,  
was   an   exact   match   to   the   frames   of   her   half   moon   glasses.         Young   fella   stood   apart  
from   them,   looking   around   the   store.         His   hands   were   in   his   pockets,   which   were  
down   around   the   middle   of   his   thighs.   This   gave   him   a   rounded   back   that   Henry  
associated  with  very  old  men.    
  

“Excuse  us,  but  we  are  looking  for  this  youngster’s  mother.  He  needs  a  key  to  

get  in  his  house.  “  
  

The   woman   (her   nametag   said   “Rosalind”)   picked   up   the   handset   to   her  

phone  and  touched  a  button.      
  

“What’s  the  name.”  

  

Rosalind  looked  at  Henry.  Henry  looked  at  Young  Fella.    

  

“Delores    Filson”  he  said,  barely  audible.  

  

Rosalind  squinted  behind  her  glasses.    She  looked  at  Henry.  She  looked  at  a  

computer  screen  and  quickly  tapped  on  the  keyboard  in  front  of  her.      
  

“Nobody  by  that  name  is  working  today,  “  she  said.  

  

Young  Fella  backed  further  away.  But  Henry  pressed  on.  

  

“You   sure?      Maybe   she   you   know,   switched   shifts   with   someone,   or   maybe  

she  got  called  in  at  the  last  minute?”      
  

Rosalind  paused.  She  breathed.  Henry  noticed  that  she  had  small  trees  etched  

on  the  frames  of  her  glasses.  Rosalind  glanced  at  Young  Fella.  She  cocked  her  head  
forward  in  said  in  a  very  low  and  deliberate  voice:  
  

“Delores  Filson  doesn’t  work  here  anymore.  She  did.  But  not  anymore.    You  

see  what  I  am  telling  you?”  
  

Henry  both  saw  and  heard.    He  ambled  back  to  Young  Fella.    

  

“You  and  your  moms  must  have  gotten  crossed  up.  She’s  probably  at  home.  

Just   let   me   get   my   stuff   and   we’ll   go   back.”      Henry   thought   about   asking   some  
questions,  but  decided  they  wouldn’t  do  any  good  right  then.    
  

The  two  of  them  loaded  a  shopping  cart.  Henry  checked  off  the  items  from  a  

written   list.      He   had   spoken   to   the   paint   people   first.      Mr.   Williams   was   not   going  
fancy  with  the  paint,  so  it  did  not  take  long  to  mix.    Henry  and  Young  Fella  leaned  on  
the   little   counter   and   watched   the   automatic   mixer   shake   the   can   in   wide   circles.      
Henry   paid   in   cash,   aware   that   he   had   made   a   row   of   bills   very   visible   when   he  
tucked  the  receipt  into  his  wallet.  He  clapped  it  shut  and  they  left.    

  
  

Young  Fella  continued  his  supervision  of  the  rearward  traffic  all  the  way  back  

to  Glenwood.  He  jumped  out  of  the  car  when  they  rolled  to  the  curb  in  front  of  his  
house.      He   popped   up   the   steps   and   pounded   on   the   door.   (Doorbells,   Henry   had  
noticed,   were   a   rarity   in   Glenwood.)   Nothing.   Overcoming   a   bit   of   reluctance,   Henry  
turned   off   the   truck   and   approached   the   house.   He   looked   in   the   front   window,  
shading   his   eyes   like   an   Indian   scout.   Nothing   going   on.   He   thought   about   trying   the  
back  door,  but  recalling  Leon,  decided  to  avoid  the  static  caused  by  the  appearance  
of  getting  in  a  young  man’s  business.    
  

“Suppose  you  can  wait  with  me  inside  if  you  want,”  offered  Henry.  

  

Young   Fella   shrugged.   But   he   hitched   up   his   jeans   and   climbed   back   in   the  

truck.    Henry  hit  the  re-­‐dial  on  his  phone.  He  let  who  he  hoped  was  Delores  Filson  
know  where  her  son  was.    
  

To   Henry’s   mild   surprise,   Young   Fella   helped   him   unload   the   supplies   and  

carry   them   upstairs.      Henry   thought   about   telling   Young   Fella   that   he   could   watch  
TV  while  he  waited,  but  thought  better  of  it.    Leaving  Young  Fella  unsupervised  did  
not   seem   like   a   good   idea.      Besides,   he   sensed   a   wealth   of   TV   had   been   watched  
already.    Henry  was  about  to  broach  the  topic  of  putting  Young  Fella  to  work  when  
Young  Fella  broke  the  silence  himself.  
  

“What  choo  do  here  anyway?”  

  

“Caretaker.  Looking  after  the  property.    Getting  it  ready  to  rent.    Can’t  do  that  

now  because  it  looks  a  little  shabby.”  
  

“You  get  paid  for  that?”  

  

“A  little.  And  I  get  to  stay  here.”    Henry  was  wary  of  offering  specifics.    

  

Young  Fella  took  it  in.  Hands  still  in  his  pockets.    

  

Enough  ice  had  been  broken  for  Henry’s  comfort.    

  

“  I’m  Henry  Depute,”  said  Henry.  “What’s  your  name?”  

  

“Carl.”  

  

“Glad  to  meet  you  Carl.”    Henry  stuck  out  his  hand.    He  got  a  limpid  shake  as  

Carl’s  eyes  slid  over  him  like  baleful  penitentiary  spotlights.      
  

“Well  Carl,  since  you  are  here,  may  as  well  be  useful.    Open  up  that  tarp  and  

spread   it   on   the   floor.   Get   tight   up   against   the   walls.      We   don’t   want   to   have   to  
scrape  paint  off  these  hardwoods.”  
  

Henry   registered   his   own   “we.”      It   was   a   little   dangerous.   Almost   inviting   a  

“who’s  we”  comeback.    Henry  braced  himself.    Blessedly,  Carl  grabbed  the  package  
of  tarp  and  set  to  work.    Henry  worried  the  paint  with  a  stir  and  watched.    It  took  
Carl  a  few  minutes  to  figure  out  the  complicated  map-­‐like  folds  of  the  tarp.  But  by  
the   time   Henry   poured   paint   into   a   roller   bin,   Carl   was   using   his   feet   to   push   the  
tarp’s  edges  snug  against  the  wall.      
  

Carl  returned  to  Henry’s  side.    

  

“See   those   baseboards   above   the   floor?      That’s   probably   real   oak.      Those  

baseboards  are  worth  something  in  a  house  like  this.  You  want  that  two-­‐tone  look.  
Looks  rich.    We  don’t  want  to  paint  on  them.  So  look  here.”      Henry  took  out  some  
painters  tape  and  showed  Carl  how  to  protect  the  baseboards  and  still  cover  every  
inch  of  wall  above  them.    In  minutes  they  had  the  four  walls  taped  and  prepped.    
  

Henry  felt  a  faint  glow  in  his  confidence.  So  far  the  “we”  was  holding.      

  

“Well  …  lets  have  at  it,”  Henry  gestured  toward  the  paint  trays.  No  ice  cracked  

beneath  his  feet.  Carl  took  a  roller  and  a  bin  and  headed  for  the  west  wall.    
  

Rolling   paint   is   easy   work.      Tedious,   but   fundamentally   simple   as   long   as   you  

watched  the  evenness  of  your  stroke.      
“Long  and  tall,”  he  offered  Carl.  Carl  went  long  and  tall.    
They   painted   in   silence.   Mostly.   Henry   offered   a   few   comments   on   the  
benefits  of  plaster  walls.    He  did  not  really  check  to  see  if  they  fell  on  deaf  ears.      By  
five  o’clock  the  room  was  done  except  for  some  brushwork  at  the  edges.    
“Plenty  of  paint  left  for  a  second  coat.  I  guessed  right,  “  said  Henry.    “We’ve  
done  a  day’s  work.”  He  looked  at  Carl  who  was  looking  past  him.    
“I  gotta  go,”  said  Carl.    
He  was  down  the  stairs  before  Henry  could  say  a  word.    
*******  
  The  next  day,  Carl  arrived  at  about  10  am.  He  nodded  at  Henry  and  took  up  a  
roller.    They  finished  the  second  coat.    
Before   he   went   to   sleep   that   night,   Henry   gauged   the   situation.      Carl   was  
certainly   not   interfering   with   the   Work   or   his   calls   to   Leon   and   Sharon.   In   fact,   he  
moved   the   days   along.      Henry   decided   to   roll   with   the   current.      Not   his   usual  
decision   as   currents   had   turned   bad   for   him   in   the   past.      Caretaking   was,   in   essence,  
a  one-­‐man  business  at  least  as  Henry  had  experienced  it.  This  was  not  crew  work.    
Not  the  type  of  thing  where  a  bunch  of  guys  spent  the  day  sweating  and  smartassing  
with   each   other.         But   the   caretaking   was   getting   done.      Before   he   left,   Carl   had  

ambled   down   to   the   second   and   third   bedrooms,   each   of   which   would   need   two  
coats.      Apparently  Carl  wanted  to  take  a  measure  of  the  work.  May  as  well  press  on.    
*****  
The  first  coat  was  on  in  the  second  bedroom.    Sharon  was  doing  some  mom  
thing  at  the  kid’s  school.  Leon  was  watching  a  basketball  game  when  he  called.    No  
flat  affecting  about  missed  free  throws.    
*****  
The  next  day  was  different.    Henry  was  well  into  his  prep  work  on  the  third  
bedroom   when   there   was   a   knock   on   the   door.   Wasn’t   Carl.      He   didn’t   knock   like  
that.  Henry  went  downstairs  and  peeked  out  the  front  windows  toward  the  door.  He  
sighed.  Henry  took  a  deep  breath  and  opened  the  front  door.    He  was  greeted  by  the  
same   man   he   had   met   one   thousand   times   before.      He   was   tall   but   his   chest   ran   into  
his  belly  without  the  slightest  differentiation.  He  wore  low-­‐slung  jeans  that  formed  
little   clouds   of   denim   at   his   feet.      Jordans.   Baseball   cap   to   the   side,   oddly   with   the  
gold  size  sticker  still  attached.  Toothpick  jutting  out  of  epoxy  teeth.  He  had  his  hands  
tucked  into  his  waistband.    His  flannel  shirt  jacket  had  seen  better  days.    
“Can  I  help  you?”    Always  start  on  the  high  ground.    
“So  is  you  the  one  who  is  putting  Carl  to  work  painting?”    
Henry   saw   the   trap   in   front   of   him.   The   Disease   loved   it   when   you   went  
hollering   off   headlong   all   full   of   piss   and   fire.      It   feasted   when   you   lost   the   higher  
ground.  
“I   don’t   think   we’ve   met.   I’m   Henry.   Are   you   Carl’s   father?”      Higher   ground  
maintained  thus  far.  

A  pause.  The  toothpick  dipped  and  dived.    
“I   be   over   there   with   Carl.   He   said   you   got   him   painting   and   not   pay   him  
anything.”  
“Over   there   with   Carl?”      Henry   had   heard   these   words   or   a   variation   a  
thousand  times.    No  implication  of  actual  relation  or  responsibility.    No  claim  to  Carl  
as  his  own.      
“Well….   I’m   sorry,   what’s   your   name   again?”      The   Disease   dictated   he   have  
these  conversation  on  close  to  his  own  terms.  
“I’m  Tyree.”  
“Well  Tyree,  Carl  has  been  working  with  me  over  here  pretty  much  because  I  
get  the  sense  he  wants  to.    So  I  am  happy  to  oblige…  seeing  that  he  doesn’t  seem  to  
be  in  school.  “  
Henry   waited.   Let   his   words   settle   in.      The   minds   of   the   Tyrees   ran   a   few  
steps  behind  their  mouths  and  years  behind  their  fists.      
“You   know   Tyree,   this   all   got   started   when   Carl   was   looking   for   his   mom   a  
few   days   back.   We   drove   out   to   Griffins   looking,   but   she   wasn’t   there.      Tried   her   cell  
twice.”    
Tyree   had   now   fixed   his   eyes   on   a   spot   high   in   the   doorframe.      Some   more  
duck  and  dive  from  the  mouth  timber.    Henry  pressed  on:    
“Is  she  around?  Delores?  I’d  like  to  talk  to  her.”  
“She   out,   “   said   Tyree   for   probably   the   millionth   time   in   his   life.      Henry  
figured   Tyree   frequently   did   not   know   the   whereabouts   of   people   in   his   life.      “But  
lookit  -­‐  Carl  ain’t  no  slave.  You  owe  him  some  money,  see  what  I  am  saying.”  

“Well  Carl  never  asked  for  any  money.  If  he  wants  some,  we  can  maybe  work  
something  out.    But  I  mean  me  and  Carl.  We  get  on  fine.”  
“What  you  doing  here  anyway?”  
“You   mean   in   this   house?      I   am   the   caretaker.   Looking   after   things.   Doing  
some  work.”  
“Caretaking?”  
“Mmmm   hmmm.”      Henry   knew   Tyree   rarely   found   himself   on   the   business  
end  of  an  action  word  unless  it  was  sleeping,  fucking  or  smoking.  
“Well  …  you  new  here,”  began  Tyrell  his  eyes  still  fixed  above  Henry’s  head.  
“Folks  around  here  mind  their  own  business.”    
“Tyree,   what   can   I   tell   you.      Carl   or   his   mom   wants   to   talk,   I   am   more   than  
happy  to.  But  right  now,  I  ‘ve  got  work.”    
Henry  nodded  and  closed  the  door.  He  turned  the  deadbolt.    He  went  upstairs  
and   walked   to   the   front   bedroom.   He   stood   a   few   feet   back   from   the   window   and  
watched.  Tyree  hitched  up  his  pants,  walked  down  the  steps  and  across  the  vacant  
lot.    He  threw  his  toothpick  in  the  open  cellar  and  proceeded  to  Carl’s  house.    
Slappy  Motherfucker.  
Henry  ruminated.  He  had  pushed  Tyree  a  little  bit  with  the  school  thing.  But  
the   disease   hated   cowardice   as   much   as   it   hated   arrogance.      Best   not   to   be   found  
weak   and   licking   your   wounds.   No   real   choice   in   the   matter.   He   reassessed   for   a  
moment,  but  stuck  with  his  conclusion.  He  went  back  to  the  Work.    
  
  

*****  
Carl  showed  up  the  next  day.    He  made  no  mention  of  Tyree.    Carl  watched  as  
Henry  re-­‐wired  outlets.  (A  lot  of  the  outlets  in  the  house  had  only  one  working  plug.)  
Carl   even   managed   a   laugh   when   Henry   asked   him   what   would   happen   if   you   didn’t  
pull  a  fuse  before  you  worked  on  a  plug.        
“Damn,  you  get  lit  up.  Burned  inside  out.  Like  electrocuted.”  
Henry   re-­‐wired   the   outlets   in   the   living   room.   Then   he   watched   as   Carl   did  
the  two  in  the  dining  room.    As  usual,  Carl  left  with  a  nod  after  taking  a  Coke  from  
the  fridge.    (The  Coke  being  the  real  thing.  Henry  had  no  proof,  but  he  thought  that  
diet  sodas  might  in  some  way  feed  the  Disease.)  
The   rest   of   the   day   passed   uneventfully.      The   weather   turned   warm   in   the  
afternoon,   so   Henry   busied   himself   in   the   garage,   which   had   become   like   a   giant   lint  
trap,  capturing  leaves,  garbage,  dust,  and  the  occasional  empty  bag  of  chips.    Henry  
found   some   old   tools   including   a   cold   chisel   and   a   crowbar.   He   left   both   by   the   back  
door  of  the  house,  they  being  in  the  category  of  tools  that  no  one  wanted  to  pay  for  
but  were  nonetheless  essential.    You  could  not  just  throw  them  out.    He  worked  the  
big   broom,   but   knew   the   job   would   just   have   to   be   repeated   until   he   replaced   the  
broken  window  at  the  side  of  the  garage.    
The  window  proved  critical.    Like  all  the  houses  on  Glenwood,  the  garage  was  
located  in  the  back  and  opened  on  to  a  gravel  alley,  which  in  turn  led  to  the  street.    
Henry  had  no  cause  thus  far  to  pay  any  attention  to  the  alley  except  to  roll  out  the  
garbage   can.      But   today,   as   Henry   was   examining   the   broken   window   in   order   to  

estimate   its   repair,   he   noticed   that   he   could   see   past   the   leveled   garage   of   the   home  
next  to  him  and  right  into  Carl’s  backyard.      
And   there   was   Tyree.   Sitting   in   a   lawn   chair   near   the   side   door   of   the   garage,  
eating  something  out  of  a  bag.    Henry  was  going  to  move  on  when  he  heard  the  roll  
of  a  tire  on  the  pebbles  and  gravel  that  lined  the  alley.    Henry  watched.    Tyree  took  
notice  of  the  car  when  it  was  halfway  down  the  alley.    He  went  in  the  garage.    The  
car  slowed  and  stopped  at  the  garage’s  car  door.  Horn  tap.    Tyree  now  reappeared  
from   another   door   beside   the   main   garage   door.      He   ducked   his   head   in   the   car.   One  
hand  in  the  pocket  of  his  flannel.    He  ducked  out  again,  now  tucking  something  in  his  
pocket.    
Henry   became   aware   that   he   was   highly   visible   in   the   window.      He   backed  
away  and  to  the  side  a  few  steps.    For  good  measure  he  squatted  a  little  bit.    Over  a  
two-­‐hour   period   he   watched   the   same   scene   played   out   three   more   times.      Roll   of  
the  car.    Tyree  went  to  the  garage.  Honk.  Tyree  reappeared  on  the  other  side.    In  and  
out.      Carl   never   had   a   good   feeling   about   any   meeting   that   took   place   over   a   car  
window.      He   also   was   skeptical   that   a   man   like   Tyree   had   so   many   friends   who  
dropped  in  so  close  in  time  together.    When  he  finally  left  the  garage  his  legs  were  
sore  from  squatting  below  the  window.    
That   night   Henry   used   the   microwave   to   heat   up   a   burrito   far   too   large   for  
him  to  eat.  He  left  half  of  it  on  his  plate  spewing  refried  beans  and  brownish  green  
chili  sauce  out  its  open  end.  It  looked  like  an  animal  that  had  been  suddenly  bitten  in  
half.      He  drank  his  single  beer  and  sat  in  his  chair  watching  basketball  on  TV.    He  

called   Sharon   (no   news   is   good   news)   and   Leon   (“does   anyone   call   three   second  
fouls  anymore?”).  No  flat  affecting  in  either  camp.  
About   9:30   someone   knocked   on   the   door.      Mindful   of   his   last   experience  
with  knockers,  Henry  girded  himself  before  getting  up.    
She  was  not  a  big  woman,  or  at  least  she  had  not  always  been  a  big  woman  by  
Henry’s   gauge.      But   standing   in   the   doorway   she   was   overwhelming.      Her   bosom  
leaked   out   of   her   overmatched   tube   top   at   the   front   and   sides.   Thick   and   angry  
stretch   marks   flashed   at   him   from   her   flanks.      Her   eyes   seemed   to   have   an   extra   set  
of   irises   bent   on   confusing   and   disorienting   anyone   who   dared   look   into   her   heavily  
appointed  pools.  She  wore  a  pair  of  short  pants  which,  like  her  top,  could  only  vainly  
hope   to   contain   her.   Her   uncovered   arm   bore   an   etching   of   some   beast   along   her  
sizeable  and  quivering  bicep.    Although  she  had  not  crossed  his  threshold,  Henry  felt  
like  he  was  being  invaded  by  an  army  of  undisciplined  and  wanton  flesh.  
Before  Henry  could  get  a  word  out,  the  woman  raised  a  hand  that  looked  like  
a  small  dragon,  pointed  a  blood  etched  finger  and  said,  “So  you  the  one  who’s  been  
asking  about  me.”    Both  question  and  conclusion.    
Henry   still   stood   mute,   his   mind   rising   to   calculate   the   possible   identity   of  
this  overstuffed  visitor.    Fortunately,  the  question  was  answered  for  him.  
“I’m   Delores   Filson.   You   know   my   Carl.”      No   hand   was   extended.      Instead   her  
claw   went   to   her   throat   around   which   hung   a   gold   rope   suspending   a   larger  
diamond  encrusted  “D.”    
“Oh  Carl.  Why  sure.  You  know  we  tried  to  find  you  up  at  Griffins  …”  

“Don’t  even  get  me  started  on  those  people.    Changing  the  schedule  without  
telling   anyone   then   saying   you   were   supposed   to   work…      They   put   me   on   my   last  
nerve.  I  told  them,  well,  you  gonna  have  some  trouble  on  your  hands…”  
Delores  broke  off  as  she  examined  the  inside  of  the  living  room.  (Henry  had  
no   recollection   of   her   actual   entrance   to   the   house.)   Henry   could   not   discern   any  
particular  point  of  focus.    He  began  anew:    
“Well,  Carl  not  being  in  school….”  
“Oooh  that  school.    Tryin’  tell  me  that  he  needs  to  take  some  tests  and  then  
they   follow   him   around   until   they   find   him   doing   something.   You   tell   me   how   you  
going  to  suspend  someone  after  you  follow  them  all  day  and  only  then  do  you  say  
anything  about  it.”  
Henry   felt   the   wave   of   the   familiar   wash   over   him   as   it   had   with   Tyree.   Same  
old.      As   Delores   weaved   around   the   room   with   no   apparent   destination,   Henry  
realized  the  only  menace  she  carried  was  a  large  pot  of  fully  cooked,  seasoned  and  
hand   -­‐braised   horseshit   that   she   now   felt   had   to   be   shared   with   Henry.   He   tucked  
his  hands  in  his  pockets.    
“I   always   told   Carl   he   should   learn   a   trade.      Don’t   depend   on   these   schools.      I  
told  him  to  mind  you.  He  doesn’t,  you  let  me  know  and  I’ll  wear  him  out.”  Delores  
was  now  making  her  way  back  to  Henry,  her  double  irises  fixed  on  him  like  sonar.  
She  had  a  hitch  in  her  gait  that  caused  her  left  leg  to  remain  straight  throughout  her  
step.    She  lurched  more  than  she  walked.    
“Well   I’m   happy   to   have   Carl’s   help   but   I   wouldn’t   want   to   interfere   with  
school…”  

  “This  is  a  nice  house.    I  bet  you  are  going  to  fix  it  up  just  fine.  Somebody  is  
going   to   want   this.”      She   said,   emphasizing   “want”   as   though   being   wanted   was   a  
reoccurring  aspiration  and  wanting,  a  constant  and  familiar  state  in  her  life.    
Henry  was  thinking  about  raising  the  issue  of  Tyree  when  Delores  suddenly  
turned  and  pointed  her  force-­‐of-­‐nature-­‐body  squarely  at  the  dining  room  table.  
“What  choo  got  here.    Little  tostada?”  
“I  guess  my  eyes  were  a  little  bigger  than  my  stomach,”  said  Henry.    
“Oh  well  then,  don’t  mind  if  I  do.    Thanks  so  much.    You  know  my  blood  sugar  
gets  low  when  I  don’t  eat.  And  I  like  this  Messican  food.    You  can’t  always  get  good  
food  around  here.  There  used  to  be  a  deli  on  Highland  Ave.,  but  it  closed.  The  owner  
said   he   couldn’t   make   any   money   but   I   heard   he   needed   to   get   out   of   the  
neighborhood   because   he   was   keeping   time   with   one   of   his   employees   and   her  
daddy  got  mad  so  he  had  to  leave  soon…..”  
With   that,   she   scooped   up   the   remains   of   his   badly   bleeding   burrito   and  
started  for  the  door,  the  gourmand  history  of  Glenwood  still  falling  from  her  month.  
“You   let   me   know   if   you   have   any   problems   with   Carl.   I   live   two   doors   down.    
It  was  nice  to  meet  you.”  
And   she   was   gone.      Henry   was   flummoxed.   What   either   of   them   had  
accomplished   by   this   encounter   was   not   clear.      Henry   allowed   the   possibility   that  
this   was   a   case   and   that   Delores   and   Tyree,   maybe   even   Carl,   were   planning   an  
uninvited   and   covert   visit   to   the   home.      For   whatever   reason,   Henry   let   this   slip  
down   the   ladder   of   possibilities.   Carl   could   have   gotten   all   the   information   he  
needed  with  a  single  visit.    Tyree,  despite  his  obvious  sidelight,  had  never  actually  

entered  the  home.    Delores  seemed  more  fuck-­‐up  than  thief,  although  he  was  going  
to  leave  the  answer  blank  on  that  one  for  a  bit.    
That  night  the  weather  turned  inexplicably  cold  again.    Before  getting  on  his  
mattress   Henry   took   stock.      He   mentally   inventoried   his   possessions   from   money   in  
the   bank   to   the   contents   of   his   duffel.      The   Disease   meant   you   took   nothing   for  
granted.   Not   the   blanket   that   protected   you   from   the   chill   or   the   hot   coffee   you  
drank   each   morning.   You   were   accountable   for   everything   and   felt   its   absence   or  
presence  with  intensity.    Still,  Henry  could  not  help  but  think  that  his  little  inventory  
was  the  end  result  of  feeling  a  little  unsettled  or  even  threatened.  (“A  trigger”  they  
called  it  at  the  VA.)  He  treated  himself  to  another  beer  with  high  hopes  of  sleep.    
*****  
The   sleep   never   came   really,   and   Henry   found   himself   confronting   the  
morning   armed   with   nothing   but   distraction.   The   world   had   shifted   a   little   bit.    
Henry   could   feel   it.      He   was   in   the   mud,   not   deep,   but   enough   to   slow   him   up.      All   of  
sudden   the   Work   was   crowded   out   by   thoughts   of   Tyree   and   Delores,   the   particular  
political  economy  of  places  like  Glenwood  and  the  roles  it  assigned  to  boys  like  Carl.    
Henry  was  suddenly  impatient.  He  did  not  want  to  wait  for  the  coffee  to  brew.    Calls  
to   Leon   and   Sharon   took   on   almost   insurmountable   pain   in   the   ass   status.      Henry  
registered   what   was   going   on.      A   constant   and   attentive   focus   on   The   Work   had  
sustained  him  for  some  time.    Now  he  was  distracted,  his  mind  wandering  not  only  
to   the   how   and   whats   of   Carl’s   situation,   but   the   how   and   whats   of   the   universe  
more  generally  and  what  they  required  of  him.      

Henry   strongly   suspected   that   Tyree   and   Delores   rarely   battled   such  
thoughts,  but  yet  went  through  their  lives  triggering  them  in  others.    Henry  tried  not  
to   dwell   on   ironies.   They   always   contained   a   hint   of   unfairness   and   unmatched  
expectations.  These  piqued  the  interest  of  The  Disease.  
Carl   arrived   at   his   usual   time.   No   mention   of   his   mother.   The   two   set   back   to  
work  on  the  third  and  smallest  bedroom  in  the  house.    A  small  afterthought  off  the  
kitchen  on  the  first  floor  with  only  one  small  window  facing  the  backyard.  The  room  
held  no  furniture  so  they  could  get  to  the  main  event  without  any  muscle  work.    As  
they   painted,   Henry   noticed   that   Carl   looked   tired.   His   shoulders   slumped   even  
further  than  usual;  his  brushstrokes  were  tentative  and  accompanied  by  sighs.    
Henry  had  made  half  a  promise  to  pry  no  further  and  slow  his  descent  into  
whatever  mess  inflicted  Carl’s  life.    He  cited  the  usual  excuses:  Carl  wasn’t  his  son;  
his   nose   didn’t   belong   in   other   people’s   business;   The   Disease   did   not   reward   this  
type  of  thing;  the  Glenwoods  of  the  world  had  been  producing  and  resolving  these  
types   of   things   without   Henry   for   sometime.      All   were   valid   in   Henry’s   mind   right  
until  the  very  point  when  he  discarded  them.    
“So  I  met  your  moms  last  night.”  
Silence.   Carl   did   not   lift   his   attention   from   the   wall   in   front   of   him.   Though  
they  were  painting  the  smallest  room  in  the  house,  Carl  appeared  almost  swallowed  
by  it.    
Henry   walked   over   to   Carl.      He   began   rolling   paint   a   few   feet   away   from  
where  Carl  started  his  stroke.    
“So  you  and  your  mom  and  Tyree  all  stay  together?  

“I’m  over  there  with  them.”    Replied  Carl.    He  wasn’t  admitting  anything  on  
the  “together”  part.    
Is  Tyree  your  dad?”  
Pregnant  pause.    Carl  seemed  to  lean  into  the  wall  for  a  minute.    
“I  live  with  my  mom.  Tyree  just  stay  with  us.”  
“And  how  you  like  that?”    The  Big  Ask.  Henry  prepared  to  be  shot  down  or  get  
The  Shrug  that  in  Glenwood  meant  the  situation  was  miserable,  but  not  miserable  in  
a  way  unique  enough  to  merit  discussion.    
And  thus  the  Shrug.      
Henry  continued  painting  and  again  rejected  every  possible  reason  not  to  get  
himself  involved  in  Carl’s  situation.    
“   You   know   Carl,   it’s   just   like   this   house.      If   you   don’t   like   something,   you   can  
change  it.    It  may  be  hard.  May  be  a  tremendous  pain  in  the  ass,  but  in  the  end  you  
can   knock   it   down   and   build   it   back   up.      I’m   not   trying   to   give   any   rah-­‐rah   –late  
night-­‐tv   bullshit.      I’m   not   gonna   tell   you   walk   on   coals   or   buy   real   estate.   I’m   just  
telling  you  something  a  lot  of  people  don’t  seem  to  know.”  
Having   got   The   Shrug,   Henry   now   fully   expected   the   Eye   Roll.   But   when   he  
glanced   over   at   Carl,   the   boy   was   looking   straight   at   him.      Before   Henry   could  
continue,  Carl  turned  back  to  his  work.    Henry  finished  up  his  section  and  returned  
to  another  wall.    
By  five,  the  first  and  second  coats  were  done.    
  
  

*****  
Sharon’s  boss  had  switched  around  her  schedule.    Passion  ensued.  Leon  was  
not  home.  
******  
That   night   the   police   came.      Henry   was   awake   due   to   his   restless  
contemplation   about   his   bout   of   advice   giving.      Henry   was   neither   qualified   (ask  
Leon)  nor  obliged  (ask  Tyree)  to  offer  any  advice  to  Carl.  Yet  here  he  had  done  so  
and  offered  advice  of  the  most  philosophical  sort  that  would  either  be  useless  or  life  
changing.    Had  he  really  said  “its  like  this  house?”  Fuck  that.  He  should  have  stuck  
with  teaching  him  how  to  wire.      
Henry  had  just  begun  mapping  an  exit  strategy  when  the  argument  began.      A  
rager  covering  a  number  of  topics.  Henry  instantly  recognized  the  voices.    Tyree  and  
Delores.    Tyree  sounded  just  about  how  you  would  imagine.  Sort  of  whiny.    Delores  
on   the   other   hand   bore   no   resemblance   to   the   nattering   foolish   woman   who   had  
visited  Henry.      She  was  on  fire.    She  began  her  campaign  with  a  series  of  shouted  
inquiries   regarding   Tyree’s   whereabouts   over   the   day.      Tyree   responded   with   a  
spirited   argument   that   he   was   a   man   not   accountable   to   her   (“I’M   A   MAN”),   that   she  
was  being  a  bitch  (“YOU  A  BITCH”),  and  moreover  he  deserved  her  trust  (“WHEN  I  
LIE  TO  YOU?  TELL  ME”).  
Things  went  on  in  this  fashion.      Steady  volleys  interrupted  by  short  intervals  
that   Henry   rapidly   realized   were   used   for   refueling   the   crazy   fire   with   liquor.    
Gradually   they   moved   on   to   a   series   of   accusations   about   the   other’s   lack   of  
contribution   to   the   common   household.      Delores   was   accused   of   “SPENDING   MY  

FUCKING   MONEY   ON   ALL   SORTS   OF   SHIT.”         Delores   rebounded   with   a   loaded  
inquiry  into  the  source  of  Tyree’s  money.  Tyree  apparently  took  this  as  a  rhetorical  
question.  Doors  were  opened  and  slammed  and  finally  the  sirens.      Carl  apparently  
did  not  merit  mention  by  either.  
From  the  upstairs  window,  Henry  could  see  the  police  officers  get  out  of  the  
black   and   white.   One   white.   One   black.      Both   adjusted   their   caps  and   let   their   hands  
hang   over   their   garrison   belt.   Even   at   a   distance   he   could   feel   the   thinly   veiled  
intimidation   roll   off   each   of   them.   Tyree,   wearing   green   boxer   shorts   and   a  
sleeveless   t-­‐shirt,   was   the   first   to   appear   on   the   porch,   an   officer’s   arm   resting   on  
shoulder.    He  was  deposited  on  the  steps,  his  skinny  legs  illuminated  by  the  porch  
light.      Delores   appeared   next;   however,   once   out   the   door   she   scooted   down   the  
stairs   and   into   the   street.      There   she   let   loose   another   volley   regarding   Tyree’s  
supposed   transgressions.   Delores   was   wearing   only   a   t-­‐shirt   and   her   massive  
breasts   rolled   like   waves   under   a   thin   sheet   of   cotton.      Her   hair—or   at   least   the   hair  
she   had   yesterday   -­‐-­‐   was   gone,   replaced   by   a   skinny   helmet   of   black   with   gold  
accents.      As   one   officer   walked   calmly   toward   her   holding   a   flashlight   and   still  
pawing  his  belt,  Delores  let  loose  again.    
“WHY  DON’T  YOU  ASK  HIM  HOW  HE  MAKES  HIS  MONEY?    GO  AHEAD.  SEE  
WHAT  HE  SAY.”  
Delores’   whole   body   seemed   to   contort   and   twist   like   she   was   fighting   an  
invisible  magnetic  force.    
Henry’s   chest   jumped   a   bit.      The   fact   that   his   own   suspicions   were   now  
confirmed  was  one  thing.  The  fact  that  Delores  released  such  an  innuendo  in  front  of  

the   police   was   another.      This   was   not   going   to   please   Tyree.      Sure   enough.      Tyree  
responded   with   a   series   of   statements   aimed   at   showing   the   officers   that   Delores’  
identity   as   a   BITCH   and   all   the   bitch   behavior   that   came   with   it   rendered   her  
completely  unbelievable,  in  sum,  a  LYING  BITCH.  
The  cops’  calm  voices  took  over.  A  lot  of  “sirs”  and  “ma’am’s.”    Reassurances  
that   their   only   intention   was   to   make   everyone   safe.      Their   “everyone”   did   not  
appear  to  include  Carl,  who  had  not  been  mentioned  by  anybody.    Delores  and  Tyree  
were   separated.   He   remained   on   the   steps.   She   was   guided   out   to   the   cruiser   where  
she   leaned   on   the   trunk   and   smoked   cigarettes   cursing   semi-­‐loudly   whenever   she  
ground   a   butt   into   the   street.   Each   time   she   did   so,   an   officer   would   say,   “Ma’am,  
Ma’am?”  
Glenwood  was  just  starting  to  come  alive  with  doors  opening  and  windows  
sliding   up   and   down   the   block   when   one   of   the   officers   finally   emerged   from   the  
house.      He   stood   in   front   of   Tyree   and   spoke   in   a   low   voice,   his   face   close   to   Tyree’s.    
Tyree  put  his  hands  on  the  sides  of  his  head  and  shook  his  head  fiercely.    The  officer  
responded,   now   in   a   standing   position   both   hands   on   his   belt.      Finally,   after   what  
seemed  to  be  a  one-­‐sided  discussion,  Tyree  stood  up  and  obediently  put  his  hands  
behind  his  back.    He  was  led  to  the  cruiser  just  as  Delores  was  led  back  to  the  house.    
They   passed   no   more   words.   The   cruiser   rolled   off.      House   doors   could   be   heard  
closing.      Henry   went   back   toward   his   mattress,   but   instead   sat   on   the   office   chair  
with  his  head  against  the  wall.    He  stayed  there  for  a  while.    
  
  

*****  
Henry   woke   up   sore.      He   could   have   easily   attributed   this   to   a   long   night   in   a  
small   chair,   but   instead   interpreted   it   as   The   Disease   flexing   its   muscle   on   his  
physical   being.   Just   as   he   had   decided   to   extricate   himself,   last   night’s   events   had  
seemingly  foreclosed  that  possibility.  Delores,  and  by  association  Carl,  had  made  an  
enemy   last   night   and   so   the   situation   had   become   more   pressing.   This   triggered  
some  of  the  worst  agony  of  The  Disease.  You  either  slunk  away,  protecting  your  own  
hide  or  you  took  some  sort  of  action  virtually  guaranteed  to  leave  you  with  less  than  
you  had  before.    Coward  or  fool.    Either  one  would  live  with  you  and  slowly  make  
you   the   Disease’s   little   Court   Jester.      Poked   and   prodded   on   to   the   stage   for  
amusement’s  sake.    
The   morning   was   an   iffy   proposition   and   offered   little   hope   for   any   real  
progress  on  the  Work.  He  had  a  feeling  that  expecting  and  experiencing  the  fallout  
from   last   night   would   dominate   his   day.      As   a   result   he   was   slow   to   rise.   His   back  
and  joints  fought  him.  His  coffee  was  inexplicably  weak  and  he  had  no  enthusiasm  
for  his  morning  phone  calls.    
Henry   was   just   beginning   to   formulate   the   beginnings   of   a   schedule   when   he  
glanced  out  the  kitchen’s  back  window  and  at  the  home’s  (newly  clean)  garage.    He  
watched  as  the  side  door  opened.  Out  walked  Carl  with  a  glance  across  the  lots  to  his  
own  home.  Carl  bent  low  and  came  to  the  back  steps.  He  pondered  the  tools  Henry  
had   placed   on   the   back   step   for   a   moment   and   then   came   in   the   back   door.      He  
looked  at  Henry  and  sat  down  at  the  table.  He  made  no  mention  of  the  early  hour  or  
his  appearance  in  the  garage.    

“Carl.  How  you  doin?”  
Carl  responded  with  a  distant  cousin  of  The  Shrug  and  said,  Leon-­‐like,  “Well  
you  know  ..  .”  
Henry   froze.   For   reasons   not   yet   apparent   to   his   frontal   lobe   the   comment  
shocked   him.      That   Carl   would   continue   his   commitment   to   brevity   under   the  
circumstances  hurt  Henry.    Carl,  he  thought,  should  be  clamoring  to  tell  any  and  all  
of   his   predicament.   He   should,   reasoned   Henry,   be   exercising   some   basic   survival  
instincts.   Instead   he   was   eyeing   the   orange   juice.   Carl’s   lack   of   faith   in   the  
appearance  of  a  cavalry  and  his  filing  of  recent  events  under  the  apparent  heading  
“Shit  Happens”  was  a  wrapped  up  gift  for  The  Disease.    
Still,  certain  facts  needed  to  be  nailed  down.  
“Does  your  moms  know  you  are  staying  in  my  garage?”  
“Don’t  know.”  
“  You  tell  her?”  
“Don’t  know  where  she  is  at.”  
“She’s  gone?  
Carl  looked  at  Henry  as  though  trying  to  comprehend  the  older  man’s  
opaqueness.    
“Tyree  gonna  make  bail.    He  gonna  be  pissed.”  
“Where  is  Tyree?”  
“I  dunno.  Still  in  jail?    Felony  in  possession.  “  
“So  they  found  a  gun?”  
A  nod.    

  Henry   was   tempted   to   ask   Carl   if   he   had   a   plan.   If   he   had   at   all   contemplated  
his   next   move.      Before   he   spoke,   he   realized   the   melancholy   stupidity   of   asking   a  
child  if  he  had  a  survival  plan  in  what  was  obviously  a  sadly  fucked  situation  created  
entirely   by   people   twice   his   age,   one   of   whom   had   pushed   him   into   this   world.    
Henry  could  not  decide  which  would  depress  him  more:  the  presence  or  absence  of  
a   plan.      The   presence   of   a   plan   suggested   that   Carl   had   somehow   normalized   the  
situation  and  acclimated  himself  to  the  Deloreses  and  Tyrees.    The  absence  of  a  plan  
would  only  underscore  the  direness  of  events.    
And   so   they   attended   to   the   Work.      Carpeting   was   pulled   up   in   the   last   of   the  
bedrooms   to   reveal   scarred   but   serviceable   hard   wood   floors.      The   pulled   the   entire  
carpet  in  one  pull,  more  or  less.  As  Henry  used  the  claw  on  his  hammer  to  remove  
tacks   and   the   carpet   strips,   Carl   busied   himself   cutting   the   rug   into   smaller   strips  
and  tying  them  with  twine.  They  communicated  mostly  with  their  heads  and  a  few  
sounds.    
Around   four   thirty   Henry   was   doing   his   last   inspection   of   the   floor   for   errant  
tacks.      He   bent   to   feel   a   suspect   area   and   spied   Carl   under   his   arm.      Carl   had   just  
finished  cutting  and  roping  up  a  strip  of  carpet.  Henry  watched  as  Carl  pushed  it  into  
the  pile  of  rolls  with  his  feet  while  sliding  Henry’s  box  cutter  into  the  pocket  of  his  
denim  shorts.    
A  half  hour  later,  Carl  nodded  at  him  and  took  off  through  the  backdoor.    By  
the   time   Henry   looked   out   the   back   window   he   was   gone.      Not   at   all   pleased   with  
Carl’s  quiet  departure,  Henry  rolled  out  the  back  door  and  into  the  garage.  No  Carl.      
Henry   walked   back   to   the   house.      As   he   opened   the   back   door,   his   senses   were  

pricked.    For  two  days  Henry  had  come  in  and  out  the  back  door  and  for  two  days  
his  peripheral  vision  had  registered  familiar  objects.    Today  it  registered  an  absence.    
Henry  looked  at  the  back  stoop.    There  sat  the  cold  chisel  he  had  recovered  from  the  
garage.      The   crowbar   was   nowhere   to   be   seen.      Henry   glanced   down   the   lots   into  
Carl’s  backyards.      
Nope.      
Henry  walked  around  the  front  of  the  house  to  Carl’s  front  yard.    
Nope.    
*****  
That   night,   Glenwood’s   usual   soundtrack   incorporated   a   new   percussion  
session.      Days   ahead   of   the   Fourth   of   July   holiday   the   neighborhood   took   to  
celebrating   their   own   dubious   notion   of   freedom,   mostly   with   small   strings   of  
fireworks  and  bottle  rockets.  Every  now  and  again  the  boom  of  a  serious  firework  
made  Henry  sit  up  and  take  notice.      He  sat  in  his  chair  all  evening  and  into  the  night.  
Sleep   was   not   a   possibility.   The   Disease   had   taught   Henry   to   weigh   the   pros   and  
cons  of  everything,  but  the  various  scenarios  that  flickered  through  his  head  showed  
little   on   the   plus   side   of   his   ledger.      This   is   where   the   Disease   fed,   he   realized.   In  
those  moments  when  a  focus  on  the  Work  or  an  attention  to  the  details  of  life  would  
not   suffice.      When   the   whys   and   wherefores   got   dicey,   you   could   count   on   it   looking  
over  your  shoulder  sowing  doubt  and  reminding  you  not  so  subtly  that  you  were  not  
really  up  to  the  task.    
Sometime   after   two   am   Henry   was   badly   in   need   of   some   movement.   He   had  
not  resolved  himself  to  any  particular  course  of  action,  but  decided  that  some  fact-­‐

finding   was   going   to   be   necessary   no   matter   what   course   he   took.      He   hoisted  
himself   out   of   his   chair,   went   to   the   kitchen   and   looked   out   over   the   backyard.    
Quiet.      Henry   unlatched   the   backdoor   and   went   to   the   garage,   it   being   very   possible  
that  Carl  had  come  back  after  dark.      
Nothing.  
Henry   paused   for   a   moment,   recalling   the   point   at   which   he   had   decided   that  
Tyree   was   an   actual   menace   and   not   simply   your   Glenwood-­‐variety   –thug   –of  
opportunity.    He  finally  turned  to  leave  when  he  heard  the  drag  of  a  chain  link  gate.    
He   looked   out   his   window   and   there   was   Tyree.   He   had   entered   Carl’s   backyard  
from   the   alley.         He’d   had   a   change   of   clothes   since   the   previous   night.      Henry  
watched  as  he  plucked  a  cigarette  from  behind  his  ear,  lit  up  and  took  his  station  in  a  
folding  chair  behind  the  garage.      
Henry   squatted   down   behind   his   window.         What   went   through   Tyree’s   mind  
was  a  topic  of  keen  interest  to  him  right  now  and  Tyree  himself  was  doing  little  to  
satisfy   Henry’s   curiosity.   Henry   had   always   associated   a   cigarette   held   behind   the  
ear  with  a  certain  mental  softness.    The  Glenwood  equivalent  of  a  hayseed.    But  the  
felony   in   possession   bit   seemed   to   foul   that   calculus.      Henry   remembered   his  
character   assessment   of   Tyree   as   a   Slappy   Motherfucker,   and   started   to   shift   his  
bets.    Tyree  could  indeed,  perhaps  by  sheer  power  of  his  slappiness  be  a  dangerous  
man.    
Henry’s   legs   and   lower   back   began   to   ache   and   his   thoughts   turned   to   the  
possibility  of  an  unseen  retreat  to  his  home.    Then  the  crunch  of  tires  on  gravel.    Carl  
watched   a   set   of   high   set   headlights   bore   down   the   alley.      A   blue   Sliverado   rolled   up  

to   Carl’s   garage   and   tapped   its   horn.      Henry   watched   as   Tyree,   in   full   slappiness,  
entered  the  garage  and  re  appeared  out  the  front.    
As   before,   Tyree   leaned   in   the   window,   then   withdrew.      He   seemed   to   be  
keeping  up  some  conversation  with  the  occupants.    As  Tyree  backed  up  toward  the  
garage   door   laughing,   a   head   emerged   from   the   truck   followed   by   a   shoulder   and  
arm,  the  whole  thing  looking  like  one  of  those  cobras  that  rise  from  a  basket.      
“Te  gustas  les  petards  Tyree?    Me  gusto  les  petards!”  
A  strip  of  fireworks  dropped  from  the  pick-­‐up’s  cab,  and  began  their  pop  and  
crackle  dance  on  the  asphalt.    For  a  second  Henry  was  focused  on  the  fireworks,  but  
then  he  noticed  that  Tyree  seemed  to  be  doing  a  dance  of  his  own.    His  body  jumped  
first  and  then  seemed  to  go  limp  while  his  arms  flailed  and  his  head  moved  in  a  wide  
arc   from   shoulder   to   shoulder.   For   a   split   second   he   seemed   suspended   in   the   air.  
Ultimately,  he  collapsed  as  though  the  world  had  opened  under  his  feet.    
Henry   ducked   lower   as   the   truck   sped   past   his   own   garage   and   toward  
Highland  Avenue.      
Time   passed.   Maybe   five   minutes.   Maybe   two   hours.      Henry   finally   exited   the  
garage.  He  decided  against  going  into  the  alley,  and  instead  walked  to  the  vacant  lot.  
He  circumvented  the  open  basement  and  then  hauled  himself  over  a  fence  and  into  
Carl’s   yard.      He   opened   the   garage   and   stepped   across   the   concrete   floor.      The  
garage’s  backdoor  was  still  ajar  although  the  car  entrance  was  closed.    Henry  took  
stock   of   Tyree’s   body.      His   TV   training   told   him   he   should   probably   bend   over   the  
body,   but   Henry   was   unclear   on   what   more   he   would   discern.      Tyree’s   chest   was  

stone  still  and  a  thread  of  blood  wandered  haphazardly  down  his  cheek  and  onto  the  
ground.    
Henry   reached   into   his   back   pocket   for   his   phone   when   his   peripheral   vision  
fed  him  a  second  snack  of  the  day.    There  stood  Carl,  on  the  other  side  of  the  garage.    
He   looked   none   the   worse   for   wear   except   his   pants   were   soaked   from   the   knee  
down.    Henry  put  his  phone  away.  
Carl  turned  and  exited  the  garage  only  to  reappear  second  later  with  a  parcel  
under  his  arm.    He  nudged  past  Henry  without  a  word  and  dropped  a  paint  stained  
drop  cloth  on  the  ground  next  to  Tyree.  He  glanced  at  Henry  for  a  second  and  then  
began  unrolling  it.      
Henry  went  to  fetch  his  truck  keys.    
  
*******  
The   police   came.      Same   two   as   before.      Henry   supposed   questions   were  
asked,  but  none  were  directed  at  him.    No  one  seemed  to  take  much  of  an  interest  in  
the   alley   even   though   a   strong   petroleum   smell   still   emanated   from   the   ground   in  
front   of   Carl’s   garage.   Undoubtedly   a   spilled   gallon   gas   can   or   a   leaky   hooptie   left   in  
place  too  long.    
Just  as  Henry  began  to  wonder  if  any  questions  were  going  to  be  asked  about  
Carl,   Delores   reappeared,   a   rather   miraculous   survivor   of   Glenwood’s   natural  
selection.      She   was   trailed   by   someone   Carl   later   identified   as   his   Aunt   Etta,   with  
whom  his  mother  had  hidden.    Etta  said  little  and  Henry  sensed  a  roiling  anger  over  

the  state  of  affairs  wafting  from  between  her  cornrows.    “Precisely,”  thought  Henry.  
An  angry  sister  may  be  just  what  the  situation  needed.    
Henry  punched  up  Sharon.    She  had  a  plumber  visiting.    Henry  was  careful  to  
read  her  his  new  address.  In  a  week  he  would  be  moving  on  to  a  set  of  townhouses  
near  Pinnacle  County’s  island  park.    He  had  a  new  gig.    
Caretaking.    
He  had  done  that  work  before.    
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
      
  
  
  

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

  


