She’s the kind of person who dwells in her own little world. It was manufactured by
mortal hands, but she accredits its making to the divine. Those who think they know her
well think the best of her, but those who truly know her well know that she is not one to be
trusted with the facts. There is nothing wrong with dreaming‐ I’m a dreamer myself‐ but to
let it so that the dreams cloud what is and what is not so that the reality becomes
impossible to sift from the fiction metabolizes it from a wonderful gift of Morpheustic
creation into a catalyst of destruction, the apocalyptic dance of Shiva.
She has a gift for storytelling, but she knows not how to use it properly. She claims
that her parents abused her, that her step‐father once tried to molest her, but the only
abuse that she has been involved in involves the negligence of her own child, and the only
hands that have touched her are the ones that she has lured in. Melodrama belongs on the
page or on the stage‐ to bring it into the lives of others, to make them look as they do not, to
simply create it because of the desire to create it, or worse, to continue to perpetuate it
because she has deceived herself into buying into her own false reality is about as ethical as
letting a one‐year‐old run around a house that isn’t childproof without any supervision. She
is guilty of that too.
She thinks that she is a great mother. I tell you that is a lie. I’ve known great
mothers. I’ve known great grandmothers. She spends more time on the computer than she
does playing with him. Social networking and dating sites take priority over his learning
and safety. To her, he is like a pet born out of her womb. She’d rather die, she once confided
to a friend, than have her son taken away, but she offers him few opportunities and poor
role models. If she is going to fall, it is almost as if she is going to make sure that he will fall
with her too. It is no longer “mea culpa,” but “nostra culpa.” How much better quality of life
could he live if he only had the chance? How much higher would the odds be that he would
transcend this class struggle and obtain a universally agreed upon abstract that people call
success?
She is 18, a high school drop out enrolled in an online college that charges more for
tuition than any of the “serious” institutions in the area. She thinks that after she finishes
her training that she is ready to go straight into the medical field, but the course is not
designed for that. It’s intended as a preface to firsthand instruction. She swears up and
down, left to right, that she is getting something called an “externship” through the
program, but then again, she also swore that birth control would make her uterus fall out
and that her son burned his throat with cotton candy, so I invest little stock into her claims
out of fear of going bankrupt.
Her only experience in the workforce is working for Avon under her mother, though
it was the latter who did most of the work. She thinks that just because she did something
public school students do every year, that is go door‐to‐door to try to barter goods from a
catalogue, that she is fit for a management position, and, in fact, she will not settle for
anything else. It is little wonder then she is unemployed, living with her son in her ex‐
boyfriend’s trailer until she feels the compulsion to move out for the sixth time this month.

She’s the type of person whose outlook of the real world was carefully modeled
when she was a child by corporations that specialize in making their audience actually
believe that there is a happily‐ever‐after, that after all the struggle, all the strife, all the
guilt, all the suffering, there is something, a point, a motivation, Providence, Heaven, what
have you, to justify everything. She honestly believes that one day her prince will come and
make all her worries go away, but how many more princes will it take for her to realize that
the Brothers Grimm were folklorists and not philosophers?
I remember when she tried to seduce me. I knew from the beginning that nothing
would become of that because she and I inhabited two separate spheres. I am the academic,
the occasionally pedantic but sincere student, and she, the antithesis of all that I am. I could
have fucked her. I could have lied with a serpent’s tongue to get into the fruit of her garden,
but I know that the apples are all rotten. Eden could be found in the comforter of
Magdalena and so could Hell. Partaking of the forbidden could bring the Knowledge of the
Joys of Sex, the Good, but it would also bring the Evil, the moral dilemma caused by the fact
that I not only used someone for my own selfish needs, but that I would know that I could
never say that I had slept with this kind of woman without lowering myself to her level.
Either I had to admit there was something that aroused me about her skeletal body and
frizzy red hair, or I would have to invent anecdotal evidence to counter any claim she’d
make. Neither option was something with which I am comfortable. So as she led me by the
hand into her chamber, I decided some fantasies should never become realities, and darted
out the door, never to return to her house again.


