Dressed in his lucky blue golf shirt and khakis, Shane jogged down the steps from his
apartment to the parking lot ready to follow God’s will. He stopped before he reached
his car when an urge to walk to the bar came over him. He smiled with one hand frozen
around his car keys then patted his chest like he’d seen football stars do after a
touchdown. God, it seemed, was talking to him again and, as he’d learned to do on tasks
complicated and mundane, Shane followed. From where he stood he could see the
closest bar, a dive called The General that housed many of the foggy memories from
before he quit drinking.

He ran across the four-lane street and pulled open the metal blue bar door dented from
years of damage from whatever turmoil needed to leave The General at last call. Inside
the room smelled sour and the people inside ignored Shane. They sat at the bar, which
was full, or stood around the pool tables to his left with their heads sagged low below
their shoulders. There were small tables nearby, but Shane picked the booth closest to
the door and sat down. The bar’s walls were covered with wallpaper that featured
cartoon war scenes with animals as soldiers. Countless drinkers had peeled away the
wallpaper next to the booths and exposed the wood panels beneath. He tried to remember
if he had left one of the callouts, swear words and crude pictures people had etched. The
General didn’t have waitresses and Shane waited until he caught the bartender’s eye then
shouted “Red Rooster.” The bartender nodded and filled a glass three quarters full then
set the drink on the bar. Shane walked to the front of the room and placed three dollars

on the worn-out, scratched plastic bar top before he returned to the booth. The glass felt
warm from the dishwasher. He sat down and stared at the beer. The foam had dissolved
and Shane thought the beer looked pale, not the rich full-bodied red he had hoped for.

Earlier that day he had prayed to God to stop him from drinking again. At that moment,
with his preacher’s Sunday sermon about submitting to God’s will bouncing off the
church walls, he had imagined Rooster Red and God had not stopped him from
salivating. He’d been sober, cold turkey, for six months and cleaned up his apartment and
his life. The one AA meeting he’d attended didn’t seem right for him and God had done
the work anyway, Shane figured. The pull for the bitter Red Rooster ale had returned
over the last week and that morning he had made the deal with God. If Shane weren’t
meant to drink the beer, God would send him a sign to stop.

The smell of dish soap drifting up from the warm glass seemed like a strong sign that he
wasn’t supposed to drink. The General seemed hot as well and the temperature stirred up
odors of sweat, cigarettes and body odor. Shane looked at a man who had lined up a ball
for the corner pocket. The man paused with his right arm cocked back and his left
extended out in front to steady the cue. His long black hair looked unwashed and clung
to a dirty cutoff T-shirt with a faded Jeff Gordon face on the front. Shane realized there
were no women in the bar. Even when he had a girlfriend, his eye wandered over any
woman in range. That there were no women in the bar seemed like another supernatural
sign. He turned back to the beer in front of him and paused with his hand on the glass.

Nothing felt right. A crack of a cue on a ball followed by “fuck, god damn it,” broke his
concentration. He slapped an extra dollar on the table next to the untouched beer and left.

When Shane had prayed to God that morning in church, he had immediately pictured
himself at a bar with a full, foamy Red Rooster in front of him. He had not been able to
tell which bar, but he knew it seemed familiar. Luckily, Shane knew all the bars in the
neighborhood around The General. He’d been kicked out of all of them at some point,
even woke up in the grass outside the golf course bar with sprinklers spraying him in the
face.

From the sidewalk he sighed and looked toward the west where the sun hovered just
barely above the horizon and seemed to have engorged. He lifted his hand to shield his
eyes and spotted the large Hilton among the smaller buildings. Shane knew the hotel bar,
Webster’s, was classy, refined. He also knew the Red Rooster would be cold and served
fresh. If God truly wanted him to not drink that night, Shane decided, he would
definitely send the signals in a place like Webster’s. The General could have been bad
luck. He lifted his chest as he walked quickly down the sidewalk.

The revolving door at the front of the hotel seemed to wave him in and Shane nodded at
guests and concierge as he strolled into the lobby and toward the bar. The ankle deep
pool of drunken memories didn’t include an incident at Webster’s, but Shane couldn’t be
sure so he kept his head high and didn’t make eye contact with any employee. Webster’s
walls and bar were dark, polished wood with carved moldings that seemed to swallow the

light from the small lamps on each booth and the backlit mirror behind the bar. He saw
one person on a barstool and two booths occupied, but the room seemed silent. Two
flatscreen TVs above each end of the bar were on low volume and it seemed like the
sound had been captured as well as the light. He sat at the bar and smiled at the bartender
when he placed a bowl of peanuts and a napkin down.

“What can I bring you tonight sir?”

“Red Rooster, please.”

The bartender nodded and turned away. Shane turned in his chair and watched the three
women in the booth along the wall as they talked. He was annoyed that he couldn’t hear
their voices. They were middle aged and he thought not unattractive, but he noticed that
one woman’s stenciled eyeliner gave her a constant look of disgust. She glanced at him
and then looked away quickly. He had the sensation that the conversation was about him.
It was a familiar anxiety and one for which he had little defense. The tightness around
his eyes was the beginning and the only way to stop the spread to his temper was usually
alcohol.

“We just switched out the keg, which was outside for a while because of the delivery guy
didn’t tell me it was there so the beer is warm. Can I get you something else?”

“The beer is warm?”

“Yes. Kind of hot actually, was in the sun. Hope it’s not ruined to be honest.”

“Let me think about it”

“OK. Sorry, first round is on me when you decide.”

He glared at the Red Rooster tap’s flamboyant red crown that stood out among the others
behind the bar. The rooster seemed to taunt him. The silence in the bar started to
aggravate him. The anxiety had tightened it’s orbit around his skull and the pressure was
overwhelming. He looked forward into the mirror and caught eyeliner woman staring at
him. He turned quickly and her gaze returned to her friends. Shane felt sure they were
talking about him and he didn’t think their opinion of him was high. He wondered if his
golf shirt was not formal enough for the rich bar. He wanted to tell the women that he
was perfectly able to pay for any meal on the menu.

“Still looking?”

The bartender’s voice came at Shane like a starter’s gun and he jumped in his seat.

“Jesus, no. Give me a minute please.”

Nothing felt right. The beer was hot, no one was happy, the place was quiet and no other
beer would do. He closed his eyes and tried to pray but could only see the disgusted
eyeliner woman’s face, which stifled his inspiration. He pulled eight dollars from his
wallet and slid them on the bar. The rotating door seemed like a boot that would kick
Shane in his ass if he didn’t leave quick enough.

Back on the sidewalk, the sun was now below the horizon and seemed to suck all the
remaining light in the sky toward it. He looked back toward his apartment complex,
which was just close enough for him to still read the sign at the entrance. God had
spoken, it seemed, but Shane admitted to himself that he was a little disappointed. He
glanced one more time to the West. The sunlight faded with each second and the
haunting orange streetlights flicked on. A bright white sign began to stand out among the
orange and he turned toward it. His face broke into a smile. The Lucky Duck was about
a quarter mile away. He walked toward the bar with purpose. From two streets away he
could already read the words and make out the mallard duck head logo that peaked out
from the top right corner of the sign. The air was still warm despite the sunset, but not as
oppressively warm as the early summer nights that had kept him awake and made the
nightmares worse when he first quit drinking. The Lucky Duck’s beers were always cold
and the music was always on. If God really wanted Shane to not drink, then the beer
would be warm at the Lucky Duck. As he walked toward the bar he promised God that
this would be the last bar.

The Lucky Duck hosted the half-forgotten night he’d been laid off from his job at the
paper and blown his severance on booze for himself and ex-coworkers. He knew there
were a wall of beer taps, a pool table upstairs and a restaurant area away from the bar, but
he couldn’t remember where the bathroom was or what kind of food they served. The
place had the neighborhood bar atmosphere that attracted families and businessmen, but
not the rich kind who Shane was certain talked behind his back.

He opened the front door and breathed in the smells of fried meat and pizza. The sounds
of a hockey game on one of the bar’s TVs bounced off the red brick walls and mixed with
loud conversation and a beat coming from the jukebox. The hallway forked behind an
unoccupied hostess stand at the front of the bar. To the left was the main dining room
and restaurant. He saw the soft yellow lights from lamps hanging from the roof that
made the light wood tables glow. The booths looked comforting and the people inside
seemed to all be smiling. In the dining room he could order beer, but alone in a booth
seemed more exposed than alone on a barstool. To the right two steps downward lead to
the bar. Just beyond the staircase, a neon sign for Decision Hard Apple Cider hung on
the wall that made the bricks glow bright red.

He chose the bar.

Memories of fun nights and football Sundays bubbled from the foggy past when he saw
the jukebox in the far corner and the beer taps behind the bar to his left. He sat down on
a wood stool that matched the burnt-yellow color of the bar. The wood looked to him

like it at one time shared the color of the tables in the restaurant, but was scratched and
rubbed down by elbows and spills. Shane nestled his forearms in two spots that had worn
black over time. He turned his eyes to the wall of twenty beer taps and the long
refrigerator that ran parallel beneath them. He looked each bottle and tap handle up and
down until he felt like he was in a strip club. A waitress walked down the staircase from
the restaurant with a plate full of chicken wings that sizzled and popped as she passed.
She smiled at him when she walked back toward the restaurant and he returned the look.

“What can I get you to drink?” the bartender asked while Shane’s eyes lingered on the
waitress’ legs.

“I’ll take a Red Rooster and a bacon cheeseburger with potato wedges,” Shane said
without hesitation.

The bartender nodded and walked away before Shane could retract his order. At first he
worried that he had spoken too soon without giving God a chance to intervene. In his
half year of sobriety he had left even the choice of salad dressing up to God. He sat
motionless with his forearms rooted on the bar and waited for a sign. The bartender
tapped the order into the touchpad above the cash register. Nothing seemed to go wrong.
All the buttons worked and a receipt inched out of the machine. He held his breath and
watched the man pull a frosted mug out from the refrigerator beneath the taps. He placed
the mug under the Red Rooster tap and pulled down on the carved bird head. The beer
poured out of the spigot in an amber brown stream that splashed into the mug before it

turned a dark red. Brown tinted foam piled on top of the ascending liquid and seemed to
accelerate the climb to the rim of the mug. Shane glanced at the bartender’s face as he
held the tap handle jealous of the man’s indifference. The foam spilled over the top of
the glass and dripped off the edge as the bartender carried it to the bar and placed the mug
in front of Shane.

“There you go. You want to open a tab?”

Shane nodded and stared at the beer, eyes soft and distant, mouth open, ready to drink.

The foam had settled into a perfect one-inch cap on the red beer. Shane watched small
bubbles escape through the top of glass that left craters in the foam as the beer settled.
The glass had a thick, white frosted color with small ice chunks sliding down its edges.
Through the mug the red beer looked dark, almost maroon. He knew the color would
change after he drank the first sip to clear the foam. To him it was as if the foam guarded
the drink; a final defense. He grasped the handle of the mug awkwardly, like the touch of
hands on a first date. The glass was cold as he spun the mug to examine the beer. It
sloshed slowly, but not enough to spill, and he watched the tiny waves of dark beer roll
around the mug. The thirst he felt didn’t start in his throat the way it did for water after a
workout. His desire to grab the mug with both hands and drink with loud gulps had roots
somewhere deep, behind his stomach. It was almost painful to only hold the handle. The
nutty, rich smell that escaped the foam overpowered the smell of greasy food and table
cleaner. The attraction was strong enough to drown out even his auditory perception of

the sounds around him. He didn’t hear the hockey game broadcaster or the song on the
jukebox. The beer drew so much from his sight, smell and touch that his body didn’t
have room to process sound. It had only energy left to taste.

His brain sent memories to his tongue of every red beer he’d drank in his life and
promised the one in front of him would eclipse them all. His grip strengthened on the
mug handle as he pulled the beer closer. He pursed his lips, ready to sip. A small drop of
foam slipped over the edge of the mug and onto his bare finger. He released the mug and
pulled his finger to his lips. The foam touched his lips first then danced across his tongue
and around his mouth. The taste of the beer after so long without was astonishingly acute
and powerful.

The beer sat in its mug alone on the bar between Shane’s forearms and he stared at the
drink. Everything seemed right. He searched his mind and the room for a divine signal
that would stop him, but nothing held him back.

“How are you doing honey? The burger is almost up. Can I get you an appetizer or
anything else?” the waitress’ voice seemed like an intrusion, but Shane looked her
direction out of habit.

“No, thank you. Just the beer.”


