It  was  raining  when  we  arrived  in  Buenos  Aires  and  I  didn’t  have  a  jacket.  It  was  
cold  too,  and  grey.  I  had  had  some  illusion  in  my  head,  of  a  tropical  paradise,  sienna-­‐
soaked  buildings,  sunshine.  I  looked  at  Dom,  who  had  come  prepared  with  a  
windbreaker,  sweater  and  scarf.  He  had  called  me  up  one  day  and  said,  “We’re  going  
to  Argentina  in  June.  Don’t  do  that  thing  you  usually  do.”  “What  thing?”  I  said.  “You  
know,  chicken  out.”  This  wasn’t  exactly  a  quick  trip  upstate  in  search  of  hash  or  a  
prank  Dom  was  playing  on  a  poetry  professor.  Still,  I  wouldn’t  chicken  out.  I  drained  
my  bank  account.  I  took  extra  shifts  at  the  bar.  I  begged  my  sister  for  help.  Dom  was  
still  living  off  his  inheritance  money  and  seemed  to  have  bought  his  ticket  on  a  
whim.  The  casual  decision  making  that  comes  from  never  having  to  worry  about  
money.  
  
Although  there  were  buses  leaving  from  the  airport  regularly,  Dom  wanted  to  catch  
a  taxi.  Susana,  the  girl  we  were  staying  with,  was  waiting  for  us.  Dom  was  
determined  to  drive  the  price  the  driver  quoted  down.  Using  patchwork  Spanish,  he  
explained  he  had  read  in  a  tourist  book  the  figure  should  be  many  pesos  lower.  The  
driver,  visibly  flustered,  switching  between  Spanish  and  English,  assured  Dom  he  
was  mistaken.  I  saw  what  the  driver  saw,  Dom’s  fat  leather  wallet,  and  felt  my  heart  
tighten.  “Is  this  necessary?”  I  asked  Dom  quietly,  “We  don’t  need  to  be,  you  know,  
the  two  foreigners  trying  to  score  the  best  deal.”  Dome  gave  me  a  belittling  smile,  

“It’s  all  part  of  the  game.  He’s  in  on  it  too.”  He  said,  “You  have  to  learn  to  relax  into  
Rome.”  I  wasn’t  sure.  After  he  got  out  of  the  cab,  I  pushed  an  extra  couple  of  pesos  
into  the  pile  he’d  handed  the  driver.  
  
Susana,  with  her  mass  of  curly  hair,  waved  from  the  doorway  of  her  building  in  the  
last  rays  of  sunlight.  I  could  see  what  Dom  meant  when  he  described  her  as,  “The  
kind  of  girl  you  want  to  see  more  than  just  one  night.”  She  was  different  from  Dom’s  
usual  girlfriends  though,  stronger,  less  sad  around  the  eyes.  Dom  had  met  her  when  
he  was  at  a  summer  writing  program  in  Paris  last  year.  She  was  on  a  scholarship.  He  
was  not.  My  own  scholarship  application  had  been  rejected,  and  I  had  stayed  at  
home.  Dom  pulled  Susana  into  his  arms,  which  was  slightly  clumsy  as  she  was  a  little  
taller.  She  turned  her  head  to  place  two  kisses  on  his  cheeks  in  greeting.  He  
continued  to  hold  her  for  longer  than  was  necessary.  She  pulled  away,  though,  and  
turned  to  me.  I  learnt  I  was  a  fraction  taller  than  her  as  she  delivered  the  same  
kisses  to  my  cheeks.  I  imagined  what  it  would  feel  like  to  have  her  kisses  on  my  lips.  
She  rubbed  my  arm  and  said,  “You  must  be  frozen.  My  brother  left  his  jacket  here,  
you  may  borrow.”  With  those  sharp  inhalations  of  breath  before  each  word  that  
accompany  the  Argentinian  accent.    
  
Susana’s  apartment  was  small  and  modest,  with  pink  and  white  surfaces  that  
showed  off  her  good  taste.  There  was  an  array  of  green  houseplants,  pictures  pulled  
from  magazines  and  old  textbooks  stuffed  into  antique  frames,  1960s  record  covers  
hung  from  the  wall.  Dom  and  I  sat  on  a  smooth  gray  couch  we’d  later  learn  was  also  

our  fold  out  bed  to  share.  Susana  prepared  us  some  tea  that  resembled  sludge  that  
came  in  a  metal  cup  with  a  matching  metal  straw.  Dom  took  his  and  sucked  it  up  
hard  so  I  did  the  same.  It  smelled  and  tasted  awful  but  Dom  smacked  his  lips  in  
pleasure  so  I  did  the  same.  
  
“So  Connor,  are  you  a  writer  also?”  She  asked  me  as  she  sat  down  with  her  tea.  I  
looked  at  Dom  before  answering  and  hated  myself  immediately.  “Yeah,  we  were  in  
school  together.  Before  he  dropped  out.”  Dom  spoke  for  me.  I  wanted  to  tell  her  
some  explanation  for  dropping  out,  something  that  concealed  the  truth  partially  but  
also  didn’t  make  me  sound  like  the  loser  Dom  was  making  me  out  to  be.  But  I  missed  
the  space  between  her  question  and  Dom  asking  her  about  the  economic  situation  in  
Argentina  after  the  crisis.  She  chose  to  answer  in  Spanish  and  Dom  was  nodding  
away  like  he  understood  everything.  I  couldn’t  understand  anything  but  I  liked  
listening  to  her,  the  way  she  sat  forward  in  her  chair,  her  hands  clasped,  her  eyes  
glossy  though  her  voice  never  shook.  “People  were  carrying  baskets  of  coins  to  the  
supermarket  just  to  buy bread or a bottle of milk.” She said in English. She wanted the
weight of the baskets to be truly understood.
  
The  next  morning  I  woke  up  to  see  Dom  sprawled  out  next  to  me  and  I  was  glad.  I  
went  into  the  kitchen  where  Susana  was  preparing  coffee.  She  smiled  at  me  softly  
and  I  immediately  felt  self-­‐conscious.  “Did  you  sleep  well?”  she  asked.  “It  was  hard…  
with  Dom  kicking  around  next  to  me.”  She  laughed,  then  her  face  turned  to  concern.  
“I  heard  you  this  morning.  Early,  it  was  about,  3am.”  I  felt  hot,  like  a  rash  was  

forming  on  my  chest.  I  knew  what  was  going  to  follow.  “You  were  crying.”  I  
wondered  why  I  hadn’t  woken  Dom  up,  I  guessed  he  was  snoring  too  loud  to  hear.  
No  one  else  knew  I  had  started  sobbing  in  my  sleep,  I  hadn’t  slept  with  a  girl  in  over  
a  year,  and  if  Dom  found  out…  I  looked  up  at  her,  wanting  to  explain,  not  wanting  
her  to  think  I  was  some  emo  loser,  but  there  was  a  hand  wrapped  around  my  throat,  
holding  it  shut  tight.  She  put  her  hand  on  my  arm  and  it  felt  warm.  We  sat  there  for  a  
few  moments  while  the  water  started  to  rise  over  the  edge  of  the  little  steel  pan  and  
the  milk  warmed  in  a  pool  of  sunshine.  “Someone  making  coffee?”  Dom  asked  from  
the  doorway  and  we  both  jumped,  as  though  we’d  been  doing  something  to  feel  
guilty  about.  Susana  quickly  let  go  of  my  arm  and  went  to  the  stove.  The  handprint  
she  left  behind  felt  cold.  
  
Susana  had  to  go  to  work  so  Dom  and  I  were  on  our  own  for  the  day.  He  was  
carrying  around  this  guidebook  he’d  “borrowed”  from  the  library,  which  had  post-­‐it  
notes  stuck  in  between  the  pages,  guiding  us  to  all  the  places  where  we  could  go  to  
find  inspiration.  Dom  was  like  that,  he  carried  his  phone  everywhere  with  this  voice  
record  app  on  it,  talking  into  it,  making  little  notes.  “Never  let  a  thought  drift  by,  
unrecorded,”  He  said,  “You  never  know  where  it  might  end  up.”  I  carried  around  a  
beat-­‐up  notebook  and  was  always  asking  for  a  pen.  I  often  let  thoughts  drift  by  
because  I  was  never  sure  how  useful  they’d  be  recorded.  We  teased  each  other  
about  these  methods  of  keeping  track  of  our  ideas.  Dom  led  us  all  over  the  city,  
mostly  by  taxi,  to  the  house  where  Borges  spent  his  last  days,  the  Basilico,  The  
Museo  Mitre  and  the  casa  where  Esteban  de  Luca  lived,  which  was  now  a  restaurant.  

We  sat  for  a  while  afterwards  in  the  Plaza  Francia  watching  the  girls  walk  past.  We  
each  made  some  comments  we  would  never  have  said  around  Susana,  for  example.  
Dom  went  in  search  of  cellphone  reception  to  call  her  and  find  out  the  plan  for  the  
evening.  I  opened  up  my  notebook  and  wrote  her  a  letter  I  didn’t  think  I’d  send.    
  
Dom  told  me  Susana  would  meet  us  at  La  Boca,  the  mouth  from  which  the  Tango  
was  supposedly  born.  We  had  a  couple  of  hours  before  she  finished  work  at  a  bank  
where  she  counted  coins  and  distributed  small  stacks  of  cash.  We  decided  to  go  
early  to  take  pictures  of  the  brightly  colored  houses  so  as  not  to  embarrass  Susana  
with  our  foreign  spectator  behavior.  I  stood  on  the  sidewalk  picturing  young  
Argentinians  taking  each  other  by  the  waist  or  shoulders,  sliding  their  feet  along  the  
concrete,  weaving  in  and  out  of  traffic.  There  were  no  street  performers  today,  so  
Dom  proposed  a  walk.  “Let’s  follow  that  road.”  He  said,  pointing  after  a  murky  
looking  canal  flanked  with  grey  crumbly  walls  that  seemed  to  be  heading  towards  
boarded-­‐up  buildings  and  dead-­‐end  roads.  I  looked  at  him  like  I  don’t  know  about  
this  for  a  moment,  but  I  wondered  how  Susana  would  feel  if  I  only  gawked  at  the  
pre-­‐approved  parts  of  her  country,  so  I  turned  and  followed  Dom  down  the  canal.  
  
We  passed  big  old  European-­‐style  houses  overlooking  the  water.  But  they  lacked  the  
color  of  the  other  neighborhoods  we’d  visited.  They  looked  washed  out,  like  they’d  
been  rained  on  a  few  too  many  times.  The  whole  atmosphere  was  eerie,  as  though  
someone  was  following  us,  although  I  couldn’t  see  anyone.  The  houses  soon  gave  
way  to  rows  and  rows  of  unstructured  shelters,  built  with  scraps  of  metal  and  wood,  

tarpaulins,  boxes  and  pieces  of  printed  canvas.  The  lean-­‐tos,  shacks  and  shanties  
seemed  to  go  on  and  on  climbing  upwards  into  the  horizon.  There  were  no  roads  at  
all,  only  narrow  passageways  accessible  on  foot.  We  realized  we’d  reached  the  Villa  
Miseria,  the  slum,  with  its  growing  population  and  ever-­‐expanding  collection  of  
make  shift  lodgings.    
  
Just  below  where  we  stood  was  a  large  open  area  where  a  group  of  adolescents  
were  kicking  around  a  brownish,  mostly  deflated  soccer  ball.  They  were  shirtless  
and  shoeless  in  the  autumn  chill.  Dom  was  watching  intently,  the  smug  look  gone  
from  his  eyes,  as  though  an  important  idea  was  just  now  dawning  on  him.  I  
scrambled  down  the  steep  path  to  where  the  kids  were  shouting,  “Let’s  join  them!”  
The  kids  looked  at  me,  wondering  what  I  might  have  to  offer,  wondering  what  I  
might  do.  I  picked  the  ball  up  and  kicked  it  over  to  them.  They  laughed  then,  and  
kicked  it  back.  Dom  had  reached  us,  and  I  could  see  them  eyeing  him  up  too,  
surmising  that  he  probably  had  more  to  offer  than  me.  I  wasn’t  sure  how  they  
intended  to  get  it  from  him,  all  that  he  had  to  offer,  perhaps  they  didn’t  know  either.  
One  of  the  kids  kicked  the  ball  towards  him  and  the  others  stood  back  and  watched,  
waiting  to  see  what  Dom  would  do.  
  
“Come  on,”  I  said,  “Pass  it  back.”  But  Dom  was  frozen  to  the  spot.  He  looked  down  at  
the  ball  then  up  at  the  kids  then  past  them,  eyes  probing  the  rows  and  rows  of  
shacks.  In  that  moment  I  saw  we  were  not  so  different,  we  were  both  spectators  in  a  
sport  we  would  never  be  forced  to  play.  I  felt  sick  that  I  had  so  casually  jumped  into  

the  game.  Then  Dom  started  reaching  into  his  pocket,  about  to  pull  out  his  wallet  
(whether  he  was  planning  to  perform  charity  or  pre-­‐empt  a  shake-­‐down,  I  couldn’t  
tell).  There  was  a  loud  shout  behind  us.  I  turned  to  see  a  policeman  in  the  spot  we  
had  been  standing  with  a  furious  look  on  his  face.  The  kids  ran,  disappearing  into  
the  rubble.  The  policeman  waved  at  us  to  come  back  up  the  hill.  This  was  not  a  
tourist  destination.  
  
We  made  our  way  back  to  La  Boca  to  find  Susana  waiting  to  take  us  to  a  tango  class.  
Dom  had  suggested  it  the  night  before  and  she  had  smiled,  saying,  “Tango  is  so  old-­‐
fashioned.  People  think  every  Argentinian  knows  how  to  do  it.  The  young  people  
listen  to  other  kinds  of  music  now.  Hip  hop,  reggaeton.  Still,  the  image  remains.  
People  like  to  put  others  in  boxes.”  On  the  way  to  the  club,  I  told  her  about  our  
encounter.  Dom  was  very  quiet.  I  didn’t  ask  him  what  he  was  thinking  when  he  
reached  for  his  wallet,  I  didn’t  want  him  to  be  embarrassed,  I  also  didn’t  want  to  
hear  him  make  something  up.  Susana  looked  at  him,  “You  asked  about  the  economic  
crisis  last  night.  There  it  is.  That  economic  crisis  is  more  ancient  than  I  was  speaking  
to  you  about.”  Dom  nodded  that  he  understood.  I  thought  about  my  own  perception  
of  the  economic  gulf  that  divided  us,  and  of  how  I  had  grabbed  the  ball  Dom  had  not  
wanted  to  touch.  
  
We  reached  the  club  at  dusk,  and  Susana  led  us  to  a  back  room  where  lessons  were  
given  to  tourists.  I  accepted  now  we  were  tourists,  and  that  tonight  we  would  play  a  
prescribed  role.  “I  also  need  a  lesson.”  Susana  told  us,  laughing.  Most  of  the  other  

students  were  middle-­‐aged  women  from  France,  Italy,  and  the  U.K.  They  dragged  
their  reluctant  husbands  along.  Our  teacher  was  a  55-­‐year-­‐old,  sharply-­‐dressed  man  
named  Carlos  with  a  greying  ponytail.  He  came  up  to  my  armpit.  He  paired  me  up  
with  a  purple-­‐haired  British  woman,  and  Dom  with  a  very  large  American.  Susana  
he  chose  to  demonstrate  the  steps  with.  She  flushed  deeply  every  time  she  stepped  
on  his  foot.  
  
We  spent  the  first  half  hour  just  walking  around  the  room,  which  I  didn’t  see  the  
point  in.  My  partner  kept  flattening  her  hand  on  my  chest  and  laughing  every  time  
her  foot  grazed  mine.  She  had  not  brought  a  husband.  Carlos  had  opened  up  our  
little  triangle,  now  Dom,  Susana  and  I  were  satellites,  orbiting  the  room.  Susana  
caught  my  eye  from  across  the  room  and  winked  at  me.  I  started  to  relax.  After  some  
time,  Carlos  decided  we’d  mastered  the  walking  and  began  teaching  us  the  basic  
eight,  which  should  be  called  anything  but  basic.  I  couldn’t  understand  anything  the  
instructor  was  telling  us  so  I  just  copied.    
  
Carlos  let  go  of  Susana’s  hand  to  demonstrate  a  more  advanced  move.  He  stepped  to  
the  side  and  pivoted  on  his  toe  and  then  did  it  on  the  other  side.  The  move  required  
massive  concentration.  After  a  while  I  started  to  feel  I  was  getting  it,  the  music  
started  to  complement  my  steps  instead  of  distracting  me  from  them.  I  had  my  eyes  
closed,  I  was  no  longer  thinking  of  Dom,  Dom’s  wallet,  my  partner.  I  was  thinking  
about  my  father  and  the  last  time  I’d  seen  him  and  how  alive  he’d  seemed,  singing  
along  to  a  Howlin’  Wolf  record.  I  imagined  he  was  in  the  room  and  we  were  learning  

tango  together.  Somehow,  I  began  to  feel  everyone  watching  me  and  giggling.  “Es  
por  las  mujeres.”  The  instructor  told  me,  pointing  at  the  other  men  standing  against  
the  wall.  I  felt  hot  and  I  looked  at  Susana,  but  she  was  looking  at  me  and  smiling.  I  
started  smiling  too,  remembering  my  father  telling  me  to  always  turn  a  joke  on  
yourself.  I  looked  at  Susana  and  smiled.  She  looked  at  me  and  smiled.  Then,  I  looked  
over  at  Dom,  who  was  not  smiling.  I  stopped  smiling  too,  and  wondered  why  for  
once,  he  didn’t  feel  like  teasing  me.  
  


