My wife, Mary, and I sit in the living room of our Florida retirement home. We are
watching the six p.m. news. The Washington DC police are herding demonstrators from
Lafayette Park. The shouts of demonstrators are punctuated by the pop of flash grenades, and
lingering drifts of pepper spray obscure them as they retreat. Minutes later, we see the White
House occupant standing in front of a church. He is clutching a Bible as though it were a shield.
“That is absolutely surreal,” Mary says, but I am not impressed.
“A kleptocrat hiding behind a Bible?” I say. “What’s unusual about that?”
“He’s so damn artless about it.”
I shrug. “His supporters won’t care,” I say. “They knew he was a rube when they elected
him president.”
Mary is knitting a sweater, and she pauses to complete a stitch. “Well,” she says, “at
least karma is catching up to him now.”
“Why did karma have to wait for a pandemic?” I say. “Couldn’t it have come around
sooner?”
Mary goes on with her knitting. “Better late than never.”
I turn down the sound on the television. “If karma can’t sting with precision,” I say, “I
think never is better than late. Why does it have to kill thousands just to punish one boor?”
Mary, ever sensible, does not look up from her knitting. She says, “Karma will catch up
with the protesters too. They’re taking the pandemic home with them.”
I switch channels but get only more news. Protesters are swarming a highway. “I don’t
think all lives matter to them.”
Mary puts down her knitting. “Watch your mouth,” she cautions. “Do you want to be
known as a racist?”
“I don’t want to be known at all,” I say, then I recite from “The Second Coming.” “‘Things
fall apart,’” I parrot. “‘The center cannot hold.’”
“Again with that damn poem?” Mary mutters.
“What do you have against Yeats?”
“Nothing,” says Mary. “But he is kind of stale. That poem’s getting beaten to death
these days.”
I am comfortable with the familiar, so I recite another line. “‘The best lack all conviction
while the worst are full of passionate intensity.’”
“That poem gives you too much credit,” says Mary.

2

Life as We Knew It
“What do you mean by that?”
“Well, you’ve never been very passionate.”
“At least, I’m not spreading disease.”
“Maybe not,” she says, “but you are spreading boredom. A little passion on your part
would be welcome now and then.”
“Do I have to burn police cars?” I joke.
“That’s not what I meant,” says Mary.
“We’re housebound,” I say. “We can’t take a vacation. Life as we know it is over.”
“I know we’re housebound,” says Mary. “But for you, that’s a bit too convenient. Do you
really think you can sit there all day and make no effort at all?”
“Do you actually expect me to recover the past?”
“No, but I expect you to try.”
“Well, what do you want me to do?”
“Figure it out,” she replies.
*
Determined to resurrect life as we knew it, I go on the internet. Our days of carefree
trips are done, our days of dining out are done, but I hope to at least find some semblance of a
romantic getaway. As if by divine coincidence, a colorful ad pops up. It features a restaurant
with a porch light so green that it might have beckoned Jay Gatsby, and a voice you could pour
over waffles is making a soothing pitch. “An intimate dinner for two? No problem. Wines from
the south of France? No problem. Candlelight while you dine? No problem. The Auld Lang Syne
Bistro has it all, and we even supply the candles. Just combine any items on our menu for a

3

Life as We Knew It
sumptuous three-course dinner. In less than half an hour, your meal will be ready for curbside
pickup.”
I slowly scroll down the menu and am impressed by what I see. The menu features pork
schnitzel, stuffed salmon, and duck breast with apricot chutney. It lists honey-baked chicken,
prime rib with fresh herb sauce, and burgundy beef stew. It has garden and strawberry salads
and fifteen types of soup, and for dessert, it offers a choice between butter tarts and chocolate
mousse. On top of this, the menu suggests a wine for every course. It lists forty types of wine,
all from the south of France, and a lively description and food pairing accompanies every wine.
For example, Babar Bordeaux is described as a wine with a whisper of boldness—a wine that
goes well with schnitzel and very rare prime rib.
I summon Mary to my computer and ask her to check out the ad. “This could bring back
life as we knew it,” I say.
Mary sits down and scrolls through the ad. “We never knew life this good.”
“Shall we pick out a couple of dinners and dine by candlelight?”
“I’m allergic to fish,” says Mary, “and ducks are too cute to eat. But I wouldn’t mind
having a prime rib dinner with maybe a garden salad.”
“What kind of dressing?”
“Vinaigrette.”
“And for dessert?”
“Surprise me.”
“What about wine?”
“Whoa there, stud. You know I never drink wine.”

4

Life as We Knew It
I write down Mary’s order and include a butter tart, then I carefully study the menu and
decide what to get for myself. When I have made some adventurous choices, I feel like a
connoisseur, and I read my selections to Mary as though reciting an epic poem. “Vichyssoise
with Chardonnay, burgundy stew with Merlot, chocolate mousse with plum wine—that oughta
make a change.”
“What kind of change are you talking about? Are you trying to turn into a lush?”
“I’m trying to do something romantic,” I say.
“Well, I don’t want a romantic drunk.”
I explain to Mary that the bottles are small, but she only rolls her eyes.
*
I go online to place our orders and am stymied by all the instructions. It seems getting
back life as we knew it will not be a simple task. First, I have to secure the location of an Auld
Lang Syne Bistro near us—apparently, this intimate restaurant is part of a national chain. After
securing a local location, I must confirm a pick-up time then I have to list the color and model of
the car I intend to bring. I am forced to slog through forty more questions before moving on to
the menu—questions so stark and invasive that I should have probably been read my rights. Did
you sneeze today? Did you masturbate? Did you wash your hands after peeing? Since a single
irreverent answer would probably blacklist me, I answer each of these questions with a
watchmaker’s care.
By the time I arrive at the menu, my frustration has only begun. Each food item I order
lists dozens of subcategories. For example, my request for burgundy stew unleashes this torrent

5

Life as We Knew It
of queries: Do you have any food allergies? Would you like grain or grass-fed beef? Would you
like gluten-free gravy? The questions go on and on like a nonstop merry-go-round.
By the time I have chosen the food items, I feel like I’ve battled a hydra, but when I
come to the wine list, my frustration hits a new peak. I must pick from a dozen different brands
for every wine I choose; I must also list the year of the wine and the region in France I prefer.
Sorry, not available pops up so frequently that I make alternate selections as desperately as I
might have played Russian roulette. “Mary was right,” I mutter. “I should have left out the
wines.”
It takes me almost four hours to get the order completed. The bill comes to three
hundred dollars. I enter my credit card number. I feel like I’ve passed the bar exam when my
order is confirmed.
*
I drive to the Auld Lang Syne Bistro to make my curbside pickup. It is located in a
shopping center twenty minutes from our house. The restaurant, which looks like a Tudor
home, has an expansive parking lot, and a dozen cars sit in front of the place in numerically
marked parking spaces.
I pull into one of the parking spaces and read the instructions on the placard. The
message says, Phone us when you arrive and announce your parking space number. Somebody
will be out with your order. I punch-dial the phone number on the placard. I only receive a
recording. I leave a message and wait, but I do not get a response.

6

Life as We Knew It
After half an hour, I spot someone rushing from car to car. She is a short, wiry woman
wearing a cloth mask that makes her look like a bandit. When she reaches my car, she taps on
the driver’s window. She steps back as I lower the glass.
“Hon,” she says, “this ain’t my fault. I only hand out the meals.”
“What’s not your fault?” I ask stonily.
“The chef didn’t show up for work.”
“That’s not my fault either,” I say.
The woman wags her head—she seems put off by my comment. “His wife ran off with
her hairdresser, hon. She left him a Dear John note. Ya expect a fella to show up for work after
going through something like that?”
I listen without sympathy. This is too much information. “Will he be back tomorrow?” I
say.
The woman shuffles her feet. “If he doesn’t kill the slut—yeah,” she snaps. “That’s no
way to treat your husband. But try us again tomorrow, hon—just submit another order. And ask
for me—my name is Jan. I’ll make sure ya get real quick service.”
“Thank you, Jan,” I say.
She dashes to another car.
I decide to drop by McDonald’s as I pull out of the parking lot.
*
I return home with a couple of Big Macs and tell Mary about my experience. When she
looks at me impatiently, my palms begin to sweat. “The chef’s wife eloped with her
hairdresser.” I bleat. “What can I do about that?”

7

Life as We Knew It
“I’ll tell you what you can do,” says Mary. “Go online, make sure your order is canceled
then never go there again.”
“So how will we get back life as we knew it?”
“There must be another way.”
When I turn on my computer, I have serious reservations. I wonder where our country
would be if our founders had given up so easily. Infused with the spirit of Jefferson, I resolve to
make a stand. For the first time ever, I decide that I will ignore one of Mary’s requests. After
performing some wrist stretching exercises to stave off carpal tunnel, I recite the first line of
“The Second Coming” as though it’s a battle hymn. “‘Turning and turning in the widening gyre,
the falcon cannot hear the falconer.’”
I make sure my previous order is canceled then I laboriously fill out another, including all
the food items I listed earlier today. This time it only takes me three hours because I eliminate
the wines. When I spot a box marked Special Remarks, I express my condolences to the chef—it
seems the roaring pandemic has given me empathy. I decide to grant the poor man time to
recover from his heartbreak, so I set my pickup hour for six p.m. the following day.
*
The next evening, I leave the house when Mary isn’t looking. I drive to The Auld Lang
Syne Bistro and park in one of its numbered spaces. Jan is standing in the parking lot like a
sentry guarding a fort. She walks up to my car and taps on the driver’s window. I roll the
window down.
I think she is smiling behind her mask. “Your order is about ready,” she says.
“How’s the chef?” I ask.

8

Life as We Knew It
She drops her gaze. “He ain’t in a very good mood, hon. He believes in fine dining—not
takeout.”
“I’m sorry to disappoint him,” I say.
Her voice grows sympathetic, or perhaps the mask softens her tone. “Don’t let that
bother you, hon—I want you to have a nice evening. Besides, this bug ain’t gonna last for more
’an another month.”
Apparently Jan is a Trump supporter—who else would believe such crap? I want to
expand her thinking, but this is not the time. I don’t want to give her a lecture if it might tempt
her to spit in my food.
*
Holding a bulging paper sack, I walk through our front door. I carry the sack into the
living room where Mary is sipping iced tea.
“Where have you been?” asks Mary. “Oh, don’t tell me—I already know. You were out
recovering life as we knew it.”
“I’m on a mission?” I say.
“Really,” says Mary. “It’s just a meal.”
“So was the Last Supper.”
I dump out the sack on the coffee table and flinch when I hear Mary gasp. Its contents
consist of two candles and a dozen fish sandwiches.
“You’re kidding,” says Mary.
“I wish I were.”
“Did you look at the receipt?”

9

Life as We Knew It
“This isn’t my fault,” I stammer. “All I did was pick up the meals.”
“You didn’t pick up the meals,” Mary snaps. “Not unless you ordered fish.”
I grit my teeth like a boxer. “Next time I’ll get it right.”
*
As I open the link to the Auld Lang Syne site, I’m glad that we at least got the candles.
This tiny victory sustains me as I fill out a third order. It takes me another three hours to log our
original meals, and I console myself by leaving a very modest tip.
Mary watches me as I labor. “Are you really this obsessed?”
“The falcon cannot hear the falconer,” I say, and I press the checkout button.
Mary ignores me for the rest of the day, and she makes me sleep on the couch. As I
leave our house the following evening, she does not say a word.
I drive back to the Auld Lang Syne Bistro. The parking lot is empty. I should take this as a
warning, but I am too focused for that. Instead, I see it as a sign that the service will be fast.
Jan spots me from the restaurant door and strolls out to my car. When I open the
driver’s window, she hands me a ten-dollar bill.
“Keep it, hon,” she snaps. “You must need it more than me.”
“You’ll get a bigger tip,” I say, “when you start getting my orders correct.”
When I explain about the fish sandwiches, she chuckles behind her mask. “I guess that
means that some rednecks got prime rib and vichyssoise.”
“You’re taking this very lightly,” I say.
“Naw, you’re gettin’ too worked up. You don’t need to get this excited about a coupla
lousy meals.”

10

Life as We Knew It
“It’s not about prime rib,” I say. “It’s about getting life back as we knew it.”
“Ya can’t go home again, hon,” she says. “Haven’t you read that book.”
I look at her incredulously. “You’ve read Thomas Wolfe?”
She places her hands on her hips and scowls. “I also read Shakespeare, hon. I hope that
don’t upset you. You look like the sort of fella who likes to keep things in a box.”
Again, she has given me more information than I care to assimilate. “Why don’t you go
box up my order,” I say. “Make sure you bring the receipt.”
“As you like it,” she jokes, and she goes back into the restaurant.
Returning five minutes later, she hands me a full shopping bag. The receipt is stapled to
the bag and I comb through every item. “It looks like you got it right,” I say.
She dramatically slaps her forehead. “Oh, thank god. I don’t wantcha missin’ out on life
as you knew it.”
*
I place the food on our coffee table and open two of the plastic boxes. Both boxes
contain duck a l’orange. Mary stares in disbelief.
“That’s not even on their menu,” I say.
“Did you check your receipt?” Mary says.
“I went over every item. I was sure they had it right.”
I hand the receipt to Mary. She does not glance at it. “They must have stapled it to the
wrong bag. You should have looked inside the boxes.”
“Will you settle for duck a l’orange?” I plead
“You know I don’t eat duck.”

11

Life as We Knew It
“Well, if we can’t get back life as we know it, we may as well settle for duck.”
“You eat it,” says Mary. “I’m making myself a peanut butter sandwich.”
After Mary vanishes into the kitchen, I guiltily devour my duck. It is utterly delicious, but
that does not shake my resolve. I am more determined than ever to get my order right.
*
Mary no longer speaks to me—it’s like she has taken a vow of silence. But with destiny
in the balance, I can put no stock in that. So every day for the rest of the week, I order two
meals from the restaurant, and each day my endeavor is thwarted by some karma run amok.
On one occasion, Jan phoned me to say the power went off in the kitchen, so most of the food
had spoiled and had to be tossed out. On another occasion, she texted that the chef had been
thrown in jail—apparently, he violated a stay-away order and beat the shit out of his wife. On a
third occasion, I actually made it as far as the parking lot, but Jan came out of the restaurant
and told me that the new chef had just sneezed on my food.
“Why don’t you give it up, hon,” she said. “Your wife must be fit to be tied. I’m thinking
of blowing this pop stand myself and taking an acting class.”
“I’ll miss you,” I said, and I meant it.
“I’ll miss you too, hon,” she replied.
I gave her a fifty dollar tip, perhaps to placate the Gods, and I drove back home to go
online and order two more meals.

12

Life as We Knew It
Yes, Mary has stopped speaking to me, but what can I do about that? I can hear destiny
calling—a summons I dare not defy. So I sit down at my computer, and I go back to that site. I
know I will get back life as we knew it. Perhaps on my very next try.

13

Life as We Knew It

14


