We spent most weekends on the boat when my mom and dad were married. It was calm
on the Delaware and Chesapeake Canal. We would moor at nights at Beezy Cove. That was a
funny name, like there were bees in the breeze. Daddy would let me throw the anchor overboard,
and I still hear that hollow sound of thrurrrpp as I got splashed. That was fun. He would row
mommy and me to the shore for a campfire. My brother Stu would jump from the bridge and
swim to the beach. I was always jealous of that. We would play cards in the evening. The rain at
night was like a million long-tipped fingernails tapping glass. My mom would comb my hair
before bed. The kitchen table folded down to a bed. It was heaven for me.
After the divorce, Dad moved his boat to Atlantic City. Sitting with my book by the
casino entrance, I would watch Daddy play from a distance. My brother hated waiting for Dad to
lose, especially since my brother bothered him about the child support. I didn’t mind.
My dad was short with bony legs and a beer belly. He usually wore brown pants with
solid color shirts, mostly blue, I recall. His teeth were straight and white because his mother told
him to brush three times a day. His mother died when he was young, and he said I looked like

her. I loved his eyes, blue eyes like mine, eyes that were soft, almost too soft. That always fooled
me because he had a temper, but his temper only hurt a wall or a door or a picture frame.

The time I want to write about is about this one weekend. It was a year or so before he
died. I wanted to be a writer and a detective. So my mom gave me a pink journal for my
birthday. Mom read Nancy Drew to me. I loved the journal, except for the color. My brother and
his anger wasn’t there that weekend. Maybe that’s why it was so special – he usually got on my
nerves and read my personal stuff. This time with my daddy was like time sealed away in a
bottle, and I know that’s a cliché, but that’s what I remember writing then: there was no one to
ruin it or read it.
It was getting stormy with the wind pressing down the dune grass. My hair was damp
with mist. A man smoking a cigarette approached us and said we were all nuts for being out in
that weather. Daddy didn’t know about the storm coming up the coast. A boy in a yellow rain
coat pushed a casino cart. I wanted a ride, but the walking was good for my growing bones, he
said. One cart stood out because a man and a woman were inside that cart kissing. Dad pointed
out a black pipe ran along the sand into the sea. “Can you read that sign, Mary Rose?”
I probably squinted and read “Danger” and “Keep Out” and “submerged objects” and
then he told me what that word meant. He wasn’t much of a teacher, but then he wanted to show
me a special place of his. We walked a ways, and then he stopped and pointed to a street sign. It
was another word he taught me: Providence. Said he at least remembered one thing in CCD as a
kid. “It means under the protective care of God.” And I remembered he said it seriously. When
we learned about William Bradford and the Pilgrims years later, I raised my hand to tell Mrs.
Redkin I knew all about Providence. On the beach he then told me all about the summer in

Providence Revised

3

Atlantic City the summer after his mother died. He became friends with an older boy called
Johnnie who told him all about the crazy old donkey man who took kids on donkey rides. “The
donkey man, he lives on the moon and sails in his pirate ship, and he takes away kids from bad
parents.”
“Was your dad bad?” I asked.
I don’t remember what he said. I have no memory of my grandfather – only the canvas of
my father. He died before I was born, but my brother Stu said she always smoked a pipe and had
a crazy amount of yellow hair and he looked like Heat Miser from that Christmas special. My
dad told me to go under the boardwalk. That was where he hid from the crazy old donkey man.
But I was afraid because it was dark, it was raining, and there was so much garbage under there.
Then it really started raining. Raining hard. And I was glad my mom wasn’t there because she
would be mad I was getting really wet.

On Friday night we slept over on the boat. Storms are so much more personal on a boat.
Some strange man woke us up. His voice was deep and loud. Dad tripped through the cabin and
reached through the pink blinds, pulling at the glass doors with both hands. The blinds fell like a
twisted fan. We had to be careful with those blinds because they kept falling down. I don’t know
how many times I knocked them down by accident, and he always got mad, threw the blinds, and
said “goddamn.”
“I'm sorry,” the man said from the dock. “I'm from H24. I have the Bayliner.”
The man was tall and wore a big brown hat – like the hat that Indiana Jones wears in
those movies. I also think my dad was uncomfortable. He didn’t have any male friends that I
remember. The boat did not look so nice inside, so maybe he was embarrassed. I’m not sure what

Providence Revised

4

they talked about, but afterwards my dad said how would I like to go to a party later that
afternoon. I asked if there were any kids there, and he said, “Sure, he says he has a daughter a
little older than you.”

On Saturday I stayed inside the boat coloring, playing with Barbies, or reading. My dad
was most likely cleaning the boat with the horrible smelling green wax. He also worked on
fixing the front hatch, but I don’t think it was ever really fixed. I loved when Dad helped me
climb the ladder to the bridge, and I would watch the seagulls each claim a piling. I wondered if
each one had his piling and whether they fought each other for a piling. That was like Dad, now
that I think of it, always fighting for his space – and his fly bridge was his perch. My mom said it
was dangerous to be with him on the bridge. Once he took a tugboat wave the wrong way. The
boat rolled way to the left. She was holding me on the front deck and we almost pitched into the
water. My mom yelled that he did it on purpose, but how could she prove that?
The salty winds that morning were cool and soothing. It was one the reasons I wanted to
write about this day. It’s still so clear – and this is not what the journal touches: the why and the
how why of it all, and I know now that’s the most important thing in an essay for English, but
maybe I’ll figure it out by the time I’m finished. I wanted to take the boat for a ride, but Dad
didn’t want to run the inlet without my brother.
“I’m big enough,” I said.
“I need someone who can handle the lines and read the depth finder.”
Instead of cruising he said he would take me to the casinos for the sounds and the bright
lights and some ice cream. But he lost money, and we didn’t get ice cream. I don’t know if he
had an addiction. I just think gambling gave him something to do. Walking to the car along the

Providence Revised

5

pier, we saw an old man and a young girl stocking a small boat. They both wore orange life vests
with white straps and black buckles. I don’t recall exactly what was said but maybe it was
something like:
“Will we catch something, grandpa?”
“Hopefully something more than a cold.”
The old man tucked a Phillies cap over her long blonde hair. “Now keep your hands
inside the boat,” the man said. “We don’t want you falling into the water.”
“And I don’t want the sharks to get me.”
“Sharks?”
“Some boy told me that sharks like girl meat.”
The old man kissed her and lowered her into the boat. The girl smiled. I remember liking
that. I guess I liked it then because the old man was so nice, and they were actually taking a ride
and having fun. Maybe I just imagined the sharks. Or even the whole conversation. I wouldn’t
have been able to express my fears to my dad at all. I was scared at night when my mom went to
work and my brother had to watch me, and he wasn’t patient. I tried crying loud enough, but he
couldn’t hear over the Zeppelin, and I couldn’t sleep either because of the music. I mean my
brother was only a teenager.
“Now don’t worry,” the old man said. “You’re with grandpa.” Then he saw us, and he
asked: “You planning on coming to the party?”
“Sure. You must be proud of your son. That’s one heck of a boat,” my daddy said.
“A little too big for my taste, but it’s his money.”
Then the little girl asked us, “Will you be there?”
“Yeah, sure,” he said. “I’ll be there later.”

Providence Revised

6

That afternoon he lost money at the slots. He wasn’t happy. I was just glad my brother
wasn’t there because he would’ve said, “Great, now we can’t afford decent sneakers.”
Back at the boat my dad cleaned the boat more before the party.

The guy with the Stetson owned the Bayliner, a black and white beauty – and clean. On
the back deck with an electric grill, he waved a huge blackened hot dog. On the pier his little girl
in a pink sundress watered flowers, maybe white flowers that didn’t do so well because white
flowers needed shade. Now that I think about it, maybe I was a white flower, you know? There
was no shade there. The boat had mini crowds about the boat. Then the guy called, “Great, you
brought your girl!”
“She’s the only girl I have,” my dad replied.
“You want a beer?” My dad wasn’t a big drinker, but he never said no to a free beer.
“Been here at the marina long?” he asked my dad, placing a hot dog on a roll.
“Last year was my first.”
Soon other guys joined us on the deck. His wife started talking about the fishing
tournament. The conversation turned into weakfish, blackfish, sea bass, porgies, sand tigers,
grass shrimp, and hammerheads.
“You do any fishing with your dad?” she asked me.
“No, ” I said.
“We do, a little,” he corrected. “Don’t you remember?”
Her husband grabbed my dad’s shoulders. The guy was unsteady. He slurred his speech.
“You look like you could wrestle a marlin.”
“What do you go after?” the woman asked.

Providence Revised

7

“Nothing much,” my dad replied. “Whatever bites.”
The men laughed. “You entering the tournament?”
My dad didn’t know anything the tournament. “I’m not really into fishing,” he confessed.
“What? What else is a boat used for?”
“I just like cruising.”
“Well, we all like that,” one said, “but then you need to settle down and get to business.”
Both of the men nodded and then walked away. Perhaps my dad was intimidated around
people with money – he had to work so hard for everything he had. Now he didn’t have near as
much as he used to. He was always behind on the child support, but at least he paid.
We went inside. The little girl was outside. The boat was gorgeous, all fresh white leather
and white cabinets with no leaky air conditioner on the floor. There was no mildewed old sofa.
There were no coffee stains on the counter or rust stains around the sink. Someone gave my dad
another drink, and he scoped up some watermelon and somewhere in the conversation he swirled
the watermelon juice in the white plastic bowl. “Do you know watermelon juice is a liquid
aphrodisiac?” he said. One of the women gagged and returned her sip politely to her glass.
Another man said he didn’t know this. “Did you read that somewhere?” he asked. And my dad
said he didn’t have to read it to know it. Some laughed uncomfortably, as if not to hurt his
feelings, but my daddy laughed as I picked at the potato chips. He found yet another beer and
overheard a conversation about wives being pregnant. He must not have known I could’ve heard,
but I did hear it, even though I didn’t understand it. He said that it was better that women get
caesarian sections. “Hell if it isn’t like fucking the Grand Canyon if they don’t,” he said.
One of the men turned to look at me. “Hey, listen, your daughter’s here,” the guy said.
“I didn’t see her there,” my dad replied.

Providence Revised

8

The man’s wife returned, pulled at his arm that spilled his milky drink, and told him to
leave the poor man alone. My dad took me by the hand. He didn’t say anything. Once outside I
saw the little girl at the end of the pier fiddling alone with a fishing rod. I didn’t know where the
old grandfather went. We hadn’t seen him. “Where did your grandpa go?” my dad asked.
“He said he was tired,” the little girl replied. “He doesn’t really like these people.”
“What’s your name?’ my dad asked.
“Jillian.”
“My daughter is about your age,” my dad said. “This is Mary Rose.”
She told me I was lucky to have two names.
“You have any bait for me?” I asked.
Jillian opened up a bucket and pulled out a huge shrimp. Jillian baited the hook. My dad
sipped his beer while Jillian tossed the line into the water. He didn’t know the rules of fishing in
the marina, but it was a little girl fishing after all. And rules didn’t matter to young girls.
Anyway, he was just watching. The girl knew more about fishing than he did.
“Did you ever hear the story about the Donkey Man?”
The girl shook her head.
“He was an old man who lived around here and he gave rides to girls like you,” my dad
said. “But some say he was a pirate who lived on the moon and he kidnapped kids who were
unhappy.”
“Well, that’s just a silly story,” Jillian said. “Anyway, that old donkey man wouldn’t
want me. I’m happy here.”
“You’re lucky then.”
“Living on the moon doesn’t seem so lucky either,” Jillian said laughing.

Providence Revised

9

As she fished in silence, my dad and I dangled our legs over the pier. A splinter bothered
my butt, but Jillian was comfortable on the edge of the dock, staring into the blue sky, watching
the squawking gulls fight for command of the pilings. Perhaps she smelled of suntan lotion.
Jillian said she usually liked fishing for schoolie bass. Just then her line pulled. It was a strong
pull; she stopped herself with a solid right foot. My dad jumped up, excited, and placed his arms
around her and helped pull on the rod. In all his years with me, he never fished with me. But he
knew enough about being a father to encourage Jillian to reel the sucker in while he helped her
hold the rod. “That’s great,” he said. “Keep going.”
The action soon caught the attention of the Bayliner party. A few hurried down. The
Bayliner Man asked, “What’s going on dear?” My dad didn’t hear, but soon he was reeling as
well, feeling the line drag. Within seconds he held the fish above the water. The little girl said
that was the biggest fish she ever caught. He didn’t know how many pounds, but it was heavy
and dark brown with a greenish color. It squirmed and wrestled and swished.
One of the men from the party laughed. He stood next to my dad. “Go ahead,” he said,
“Do something with it.”
“Like what?” my dad asked.
“Get it off the line,” the man suggested. “It’s only a fish.” Now everyone was laughing.
My dad’s hands were shaking. His heart must have been racing. He bit his lower lip. He tried to
grab the fish with his small hands, but the fish kept wriggling away. All he wanted to do was to
cut the line. “I just never learned to fish, all right,” he stammered. “What’s so funny about that?”
The Bayliner Man told him it was all right and to just calm down. “It’s nothing to be
embarrassed about.” The condolences seemed genuine, but not to my dad. The Bayliner Man

Providence Revised

10

stepped forward, seized the fish, took out the hook, and threw the fish back into the water, as
easy as breathing.
“Daddy, I wanted to keep that fish,” Jillian said. “It was huge.”
“Another time, my love.”
“What type of fish was that Daddy?”
“A weakfish, but it was too small.”
“That fish wasn’t weak at all, daddy!” Everyone laughed.
Humiliation led me by the hand back to our boat.

It was early Sunday morning, before the crowds. The clouds had returned. There was no
call for rain. It was a humid day. We returned to the casinos, but walked straight through and
went to the beach, back to Providence. An old man was scouring the sand with a metal detector,
his dog circling him, barking at the seagulls. If the dog caught one of them, the dog would
silence them for good. I looked hard at that old guy, wasting his time looking for junk on the
beach. Maybe he wasn’t wasting time. Maybe it was just something for him to do too. It seemed
like a strange hobby.
With his shoes off, my dad noticed a boat across the horizon. “Mary Rose, that looks like
my dad’s old wooden boat,” he told me. He glanced at his wrist, but the watch remained on the
boat. The old man’s dog ran over and sniffed him. The tide washed over his numb feet. The
water was freezing. He must have jingled the coins in his pocket. That’s when he said the thing
that made me really sad. He said: “Mary Rose, I don’t think your mother ever loved me. I was
just a story to her, a ticket to ride. But I still love her.” His eyes were moist. The cold coins made

Providence Revised

11

an imprint on his hand. He told me to make a wish, and I wished for my mother to love my
father, and that I was real and not just a character in a story.
“You look like you jus’ lost big,” the old man with the metal detector said.
“One hundred and thirty bucks,” my dad said.
“That’s big to some people.”
“Well, I’m some people,” he said sharply.
Then, one by one, I chucked the coins into the Atlantic – unaware you can’t wish to
change someone else’s heart.
“Girl, hasn’t you dad lost enough?” the old man said. “Why don’t ‘cha jus’ toss ‘em on
the beach fer me?”
My dad filled the empty beer bottle with sand and water, thumb-plugged the top, and
rocked the preserved world back and forth. It’s where I go now when I think of him. Call me
crazy, but I still have that bottle. We sat on the wet sand, and we did not move for a long time. It
must be awful, really awful, and awful isn’t even strong enough to do justice to the feeling of
being told to leave by the person you most love. How would I have felt if my mommy told me, “I
don’t love you anymore. You need to leave the house and find yourself another mother.”
“Of course you don’t believe in the donkey man,” he said to me. Perhaps if two believed
in something crazy then maybe it wasn’t so crazy, right? His khakis were wet on the bottom. He
must have imagined the haze parting to reveal the moon.

Oh, Daddy. I didn’t want to believe the donkey man’s ship, even though your tears
embarrassed me. I was too young to be a guidance counselor. I should have hugged you. But I
didn’t. I just wanted to get home. I was old enough not to believe in Santa Claus or the Tooth

Providence Revised

12

Fairy, but I felt sad that my you still wanted to leave, to depart to that other world where there
was no cruelty. Maybe that was why you drove off the road into that cornfield. Why couldn’t
you find another woman? Wasn’t just having me good enough? Oh, daddy. I look for you know.
When I think of you on that beach, looking up at the sky, staring across the endless sea, I see you
in that bottle, both preserved and dead, and I was too young to save you. And I feel sad too that
providence wasn’t there for you either.


