My mother called from the interstate as she crossed the Arizona state line from New
Mexico. She was going to be in the hospital for a while. Just a little chemo, she said. She wanted
me to keep Jaspers. In the most recent photograph I’d seen of her, my mother sat on a boulder,
her knees pressed together in the manner of a child posing for a school portrait; the dog sat
perched on her lap. My mother had sunglasses pushed back into her thinning tobacco-colored
hair, the dog a bandana around its neck. They both wore sugar-skull grins that made you
inadvertently check your own face in the mirror to make sure it didn’t reveal some defect of
character you strained to suppress.
She didn’t cross just one state line to put me in this position—she crossed four. She
would’ve crossed five if she’d taken the shorter route through the Texas Panhandle, but she said,
“You’d have to sever my legs and arms before you’d manage to drag me into that state.” And no
doubt she still wouldn’t have gone without a fight. She would’ve wielded a knife between her
teeth like Prince Randian in Tod Browning’s Freaks.
“Sorry to hear that, Mom, I really am, but I can’t keep your dog,” I said.
I hadn’t seen my mother in over a dozen years, not since I was a senior in college. I flew
out to spend spring break with her where she was working in Portland at the time. The trip had
been a whimsy, a gamble. I had no reason to expect it to go well, but foolishly, fantastically, I
had imagined something cinematic: a pan of us trolling the downtown streets arm-in-arm, a

Cinema Verite

2

medium shot of us people-watching at a café, a close-up of lattés blooming foam. Too many
damn movies was my problem. Majoring in film studies will do that to you. I longed for
cinematic details despite that that sort of life couldn’t possibly spawn from my gene pool.
In reality, the only coffee my mother drank was instant from a rectangular canister. She
worked every day of my visit. Each morning she offered me cereal paired with a ten-dollar bill.
She had me drop her off at the nursing home so that I could sight-see during the days. On my
third brunch visit that week to the vegan restaurant down the street from her apartment, one of
the waiters asked me out. Such was my self-loathing that I accompanied him to a strip club (my
idea), then gave him a blow job (his idea) in the back seat of my mother’s car.
Crushed, I returned to school and moped about the snow-lined campus. Graduation
weekend, I told people my mother had won a trip to Antarctica in a sweepstakes. Then I made a
decision. No more expectations concerning my mother. No more delusions. I wouldn’t cut her
off entirely, but I wouldn’t offer anything or expect anything. And that state had stuck with me.
“The cat will have a conniption fit,” I said.
“So put Jaspers outside. He’ll be okay outside.”
I reminded her that this was the desert, that he’d be lucky to last a day outside what with
the heat and the scorpions and rattlesnakes.
“You don’t know Jaspers. He’s tough like me. He’ll survive.” This wasn’t cancer-patient
rhetoric. My mother had long postured herself as some sort of vigilante hero rescuing herself
from the daily onslaught of shit slung in her direction. When she started working as a nurse a few
years after my sister Natalie started kindergarten, every evening from then on was graced by war
stories about people—patients, nurses, doctors, the kitchen lady—who tried unsuccessfully to cut
my mother down. And every evening she reminded us that she tolerated none of it. “I stick up for

Cinema Verite

3

myself,” she said. And her eyes were so wide and her gestures so spastic during the retelling that
I half-expected her head to spin all the way around or a spring to pop out from somewhere—that
her body might self-destruct like a robot on the fritz.
“What about Natalie?” I asked. “Did you ask her?”
Natalie was the ongoing recipient of my mother’s care packages and checks despite that
she was past thirty. Ft. Lauderdale was probably half the distance from Tennessee. When
cornered, Natalie pontificated about her volunteer work to save the sea turtles, but it was clear to
everyone, perhaps even our mother, that most of her time was devoted to marathon Bacchanalian
beach parties.
She said, “I don’t want her to know about this. Your sister’s sensitive.” She was silent for
a moment. “He’s got nowhere else to go, Fran. If you won’t take him for me, I’m going to have
to leave him at a shelter. I love that dog to death. It would kill me.”
The last time my mother re-entered my life, it was via a box with three wrapped gifts,
their respective tags reading “Happy Birthday 2003,” “Merry Christmas 2003,” and “Happy
Birthday 2004.” Soon after, she called to ask if I would steal some photo albums and a gadget
called the Spa Master from my father’s house. The time before that was a year after Greg and I
got married. She sent a voucher for one night in a hotel in St. Louis (a sweepstakes winning no
doubt), a silver heart-shaped plaque reading “George and Fran, October 2000,” (I’d never even
made out with anyone named George) and a brief note explaining that she’d rather be a knife
thrower’s apprentice than be in the same room as my father and his sisters, but that she loved me
more than I would ever know and would I pester my father about a piece of furniture that was
rightfully hers? This time the request for a favor came without gifts, it seemed.
*

Cinema Verite

4

It was August, and the desert summer heat pummeled every living thing into drunken
submission, so perhaps that’s why I eventually agreed to meet my mother in a Denny’s parking
lot (she didn’t ask to come to the house, and I didn’t offer). Also, I was intrigued by her
proclaimed devotion to this dog. I wanted to call her bluff. I was certain she wouldn’t be back for
him, and I thought that proving myself right could be satisfying in some way.
When I arrived, my business-as-usual mother popped the trunk and unloaded a lot more
than Jaspers onto me. There were gifts after all. She’s brought along aerobics videos, eight boxes
of Girl Scout cookies (half of them opened), a bona fide longhorn skull, cake decorating
supplies, an unopened disco globe (another sweepstakes winning), and a suitcase full of Jaspers’
possessions: leopard-print bed, canned food, hard food, treats, ear medicine, toothbrush and
toothpaste, claw clippers, and a dozen or so candy-colored rubber mammals, all with great big
smiling mouths. They looked like novelty sex toys.
“Just some stuff I was getting rid of and thought you might like,” she explained as she
piled it all onto the asphalt between our cars. If I didn’t take her junk, it would sit there until
someone else did or else a Denny’s employee was tasked with the job of disposing of it.
What I said was, “I’m not brushing that dog’s teeth.”
“That’s okay. I’ve only done it a couple times myself. I brought everything he owns, just
in case.”
“Just in case what?” She had dark circles under her eyes, but that wasn’t new, nor was the
way she mostly avoided my eyes and took every opportunity to crack her neck. What was new
was the extra padding around her middle—fifteen pounds worth probably. My mother’s weight

Cinema Verite

5

had been as consistent as the order of days when I was growing up, so much so that as far as I
could tell she’d worn the same set of clothes throughout my eighteen years of living with her.
Without blinking, she said, “I thought maybe you brushed that cat’s teeth, that maybe you
might know how to do it. I really should brush his teeth. He just hates it so much, and I don’t
know what I’m doing.”
“If you don’t come back for him, I’m not keeping him,” I said.
She shook her head. Then she reached in and lifted the dog from where he was lying on
the driver’s seat, no doubt still warm from my mother’s body. She pressed him to her chest,
scratched his neck, and rubbed noses with him. He whimpered, and she cooed. When she did
look at me, she looked pained. She said, “I don’t know why you’d say something like that.”
“Now you take care of yourself, boy,” she said to the dog. “Mama loves you.”
“I’ll be in touch,” she said to me as she placed the dog into my arms as gently and
carefully as if handing me an organ from her own body.
On the drive home, I turned the volume on the radio up higher than I had in years. To
muffle the dog’s cries, I told myself.

A few weeks later a man named Clayton Stanley called at five in the morning on a
Saturday to inform me he’d broken up with my mother.
The night before, I’d watched Don Siegel’s Invasion of the Body Snatchers at the local
arts cinema, so I watched Greg carefully that morning for signs he’d been snatched. He was
putting on his running shoes, fumbling in the dark for his glasses. Typical Greg—early to bed,
early to rise and conquer the day.

Cinema Verite

Clayton Stanley said he would have broken up with my mother even if she hadn’t gotten
cancer.
“Good to know,” I said.
“Your mother’s funny and charming, but she’s not easy to be with. She’s like a big ball
of tangled strands of Christmas lights. Strands that don’t go together. You know, like different
colors and different shapes. And ornaments and hooks. A heck of a lot of hooks actually. It’s
more than I’m prepared to handle right now.”
“That metaphor is very helpful. Thank you.”
Clayton said, “Well, would you want to be in a relationship with a person like that?”
Jaspers barked from the guest bedroom. I didn’t care what my mother said about it; that
pitiful little thing would have been a rattlesnake meal in no time, assuming the heat didn’t get
him first. Clive, our cat, rose from his place by my feet and buried his face into my neck like a
lover.
“I get it,” I said. “I suppose that if I could just as easily break up with my mother, I
would do it too.”
“I thought you should check on her. This break-up could be hard for her. Her time is
limited, you know.”
I didn’t know the least little thing about it, I told him. I asked how he got my number.
He told me I was her emergency contact. In her personnel file. They’d worked together.
She quit.
Perhaps I shouldn’t have been surprised to learn my mother had listed me as her
emergency contact. She did drive across five states to leave her dog with me. But I was

6

Cinema Verite

bewildered, my mind blown. Why should I come to my mother’s rescue in the case of an
emergency?
But after hanging up the phone, I felt something else—how alone my mother must have
been in the world if I was the best she could do for an emergency contact and for saving her
beloved dog from euthanasia. Lying there in the dark, clammy with exhaustion, I felt as though
my gut were a sack full of stones and my bones made of air.

First thing Natalie said was, “Cancer! She’s going to be alright, right?”
“Do you think everyone who develops cancer ends up alright?” I said.
“God, you always know what to say,” I heard between earfuls of wind.
“That’s right,” I said. “That’s why I called. Since you’re the sensitive one, I figured
you’d want to travel to Tennessee to look in on her.”
She couldn’t, she said and slewed off a list of reasons, finishing with “And I’d be a big
sobbing mess. I’d just upset her.”
“Okay, but if Mom needs someone to care for her for a while, or heck, live out the
remainder of her days with, you’d take her in, right? Especially since she’s supplementing your
rent?”
Laughter like the howls of coyotes echoed in the background. A petulant male voice
shouted, “Hurry up, Nat!”
“You’re the oldest,” she said matter-of-factly.
I didn’t ask for clarification, but I got it anyway. “The oldest child takes care of the
parents when they get old.” Not a hint of maliciousness in her voice. She could have been

7

Cinema Verite

8

explaining something mundane like it was the job of a stem to hold a plant upright. She might as
well have said that the responsibility for caring for our aging parents was a gene I’d inherited.
Nothing could be done about it. It just was.
“Mom’s not old,” was all I said.
After hanging up the phone, I abandoned the pasta salad I’d been making for dinner and
left Greg, who was out rock climbing, a note that I was going to the cinema again. I didn’t bother
to look up what was playing or when, just drove over and bought a ticket to the next film
showing. The month’s Second Saturdays Horror Classics feature was George Romero’s Night of
the Living Dead. I hadn’t seen it since college.
I was forty minutes early, but the theater was empty, so I sat in the gloaming and waited
as strangers slowly trickled in. I could hear people’s individual breaths, the intimate sounds of
their lips pressing against plastic cups and their fingers searching pockets and purses. Sitting in
the dark with a handful of strangers, I half expected someone to lay a hand on my leg or bite my
ear. It felt like a one-night stand, like anything could happen.
Then the movie started, and I sucked the chocolate off of Junior Mints as I watched the
small band of survivors in the boarded-up farmhouse become far more menacing than the
zombies outside. Harry, white, and Ben, black, were at each other’s throats. Barbra was
catatonic. Helen dutifully tended her ticking time bomb of a bitten daughter, Karen. Tom and
Judy, the teenage couple, they were okay, but clumsy. They got themselves blown up when Tom
spilled gasoline near the truck that Judy was pinned inside of, her jacket caught. By the end,
Harry and Helen were devoured by their daughter, Barbra was devoured by her brother, and Ben,
the only one of the group to survive the night, was shot in the morning by a very human redneck
who barely glimpsed him before mistaking him for a monster.

Cinema Verite

9

*

I took the most decadent shower of my life, probably stood beneath the spray of hot water
for ten minutes before Greg’s knock on the glass door startled me. He let himself in. He kissed
my breasts.
I said, “I can’t right now.”
He wrapped his arms around me. He said, “It’s incredibly kind of you to drive all the way
out there to check on her. You don’t have to do it.”
“There isn’t anybody else.”
“Like I said, incredibly kind.”
“I don’t feel kind. I feel the opposite of kind.”
He lifted my chin up and looked me in the eyes. “You’re nothing like her.”
“Being better than her is my only measure of success, and I think I’m failing,” I said.
“Knock it off, crazy woman.”
“See?”
“Oh, come on. I was kidding.”
“I dreamt last night that she’d committed suicide.”
Greg cupped my face and kissed me on the mouth. “Babe, I’m sorry.”
“I haven’t told you the half of it. I was relieved, I mean seriously, deeply relieved. I saw
myself at her funeral in a black skirt that ended in stiff ruffles and when Natalie said to me that I
was unfeeling, I said to her, ‘Death is just a part of life.’ And then I ate a shrimp cocktail.”
Greg said, “You can’t be held responsible for your dreams. Everybody dreams crazy
shit.”

Cinema Verite

10

I didn’t tell him then how much like a Jean-Luc Godard film my dream had been. Stark
black-and-white with jump cuts, collages, and asynchronicity. I could sketch that ruffled skirt in
detail, as well as the shot of the three shrimp hooked over the rim of a martini glass framed by an
arched doorway looking onto my mother’s coffin. I didn’t tell him how exquisitely beautiful the
dream had been. I didn’t tell him how disappointed I’d felt when I woke and it was all over.

My mother’s apartment building resembled a cheap motel—bars on the windows, peeling
forest green doors swollen from humidity, and porches the sizes of dog cages. The porches
looked out on the parking lot that surrounded the building on all sides. And on my mother’s side
of the building, there was the additional fascination of the feed store across the street with all its
pick-up trucks and stiff bricks of hay. On her porch was where I found my mother—kicking back
on a fold-out chair, a glass of iced tea in her hand.
Jaspers was out of the car, between the thin metal bars of the porch railing, and onto my
mother’s lap before I could shut the car door. My mother smiled in spite of herself. She held the
dog up to get a good look at him.
“You didn’t tell me you were coming,” she said. “I can’t take Jaspers back right now. It’s
not possible.”
“It’s just a visit,” I said.
“You drove twenty-plus hours so he could visit?”
“There is the whole chemo/cancer thing. And you don’t answer your phone. And your
coworker called me.”
She looked at me briefly, then back at the dog.

Cinema Verite

11

“Well, I’ve changed my mind.” She cracked her neck.
“About what?”
“About chemo. Pathetic odds. I’m more likely to win a million dollars from a nickel slot
machine.”
“So what are you going to do?” I asked.
“Dig for diamonds.”
At first I thought it was a joke. Talk about dismal odds. But then she disappeared into the
apartment and returned with a pamphlet for Arkansas’s Crater of Diamonds State Park, which
boasted a 37-acre mine field where about 700 diminutive diamonds were discovered each year.
“Until you die?” I said. If I’d thought about it more, I might have worded it differently.
Might have.
“Yes, I’m going to dig myself a grave.” She smiled crazily.
This was a woman who’d spent her weekends when I was a girl trolling the beach
looking like an extra from the cantina scene in Star Wars with her metal detector extending from
one arm like a strange proboscis, a shovel in her other hand, and earphones that made her ears
over into the compound eyes of a fly. In the evenings, she’d addressed post card after post card
to enter every sweepstakes imaginable.
That’s probably when I should have asked her how long she’d been told to expect or,
heck, where in her body the cancer was. I couldn’t tell from looking at her. Other than the extra
weight, no visible part of her was misshapen. Nothing fluttered or murmured. She didn’t hold
herself any differently or rub away at a fixed region the way pregnant women do the foreign
growths inside their bodies. But I didn’t ask. I didn’t want to know. Asking questions can get a

Cinema Verite

12

person into trouble. You often get a good deal more than you bargain for, and I was on the hook
enough as it was.
What I asked was when she planned to leave.
“You might as well give me a ride now since you’re here,” she said. “It’s on your way
back.”
After she’d quit her job, she’d sold her car. She’d been planning this for a while, no
doubt—bit by bit, getting rid of everything that wasn’t practical to take with her to
Murfreesboro, including Clayton Stanley. She’d probably never planned on chemo in the first
place. It was a ruse to get me to take Jaspers in—more effective than saying, I’m going to run off
to a pit in Arkansas to treasure hunt until I die. It turned out I was sort of right about her
abandoning the dog, but I was wrong about it giving me some satisfaction. She hadn’t planned
on telling me any of this. She would have disappeared into thin air if Clayton hadn’t called and I
hadn’t driven out there pronto.

All that was left to do was pack her clothing. So that’s what I did while she walked
Jaspers. None of it was folded in its current state—wadded in drawers, flung over the door frame
of the closet. The abundant wrinkles make folding seem trivial. Still, I folded each piece as if
each fold were a punch on my responsibilities-toward-my-dying-mother punch card, which, once
filled, would earn me absolution from the nuisances of guilt and regret. I folded five pairs of
elastic-waistband polyester slacks, more or less identical except for the colors; six blouses, a
hodgepodge of pastels and neutrals, similarly plain and awkward like an aspiring sewer’s first
projects; four faded t-shirts; two cotton night gowns and a robe, all ankle-length; a single beige

Cinema Verite

13

bra; an assortment of ankle socks; and a stack of beige cotton briefs. They weren’t clothes that
would catch someone’s eye on a rack. They didn’t look exactly comfortable either. They were
cheap, there was that, but if frugality was all there was to it, she could have done better at a thrift
store. What they revealed was someone who didn’t think about clothing except to register that it
was necessary to wear some if you didn’t want to get arrested.
I loaded the canvas suitcase, as well as a pile of bedding and several cardboard boxes I
found in the kitchen—toiletries, snack foods (mostly cheese crackers and caramel popcorn), and
digging supplies—into the trunk of my car. As I was closing the trunk, a voice called out from a
neighboring porch sliding glass door: “LuAnn, you taking off already?”
My mother had just come around the corner of the building, the dog strolling beside her
on his leash. “My daughter showed up,” she said. “She’s going to give me a ride.”
“I know you weren’t going to leave without saying goodbye,” the voice hollered, and out
into the sunlight pouring onto the porch stepped a transsexual in a tangerine silk robe. She was
tall and angular, and she touched her smooth scalp as though she had not intended for anyone to
see it in its naked state. She had sacrificed vanity to say farewell to my mother, who laughed in
response.
“Oh, you’re so funny,” my mother said. I didn’t see what was so funny, but the woman
returned my mother’s laugh and threw her arms up in the air.
“Woman, get yourself over here and give me a proper hug goodbye.”
My mother laughed again, but when the woman grasped her firmly by the shoulder
blades, she quieted and hugged her back. I mean my mother gripped the woman like a lost child
returned.

Cinema Verite

14

My mother was not a hugger; she was a patter. And I remembered her complaining to us
when I was a kid about a transsexual nurse at the nursing home, how she’d used the women’s
restroom. I have no problem with any of it but the bathroom part. I just can’t relax if I know
there’s a penis in the next stall.
Suddenly I wanted to back out. I wanted to get into my car and drive all the way home,
leaving my mother to take the bus. I didn’t want to be alone with her. Breathing in lungfulls of
particles that had traveled in and out of the mucus-lined passages of my mother’s body seemed
far too intimate.

Driving the four hours to Murfreesboro with my mother as passenger was like tending to
a pigeon that had flown in through the window. She squawked and squirmed for several minutes
as she situated herself. Once settled, she gnashed caramel popcorn and rubbed the dog so fiercely
I worried he might bite her. She stared straight ahead at the road. She remained in the car when I
stopped for gas, declined my suggestion that she stretch her legs or take advantage of the
restroom.
Arriving in Murfreesboro was a relief, and then it wasn’t. The cabin my mother planned
to spend her remaining days in was rustic to say the least. The only running water was a spigot
outside the building. Toilets and showers were communal and located down the street. The beds
were wooden platforms on which you could set up a sleeping bag or some blankets. It was
equipped with a single outlet, but no light, no fan. Forget about a refrigerator.
She acted like she was settling into an extended stay hotel—unpacked her suitcase and
her boxes onto one of the four wooden platforms, arranged everything in neat little rows that I

Cinema Verite

15

would bet didn’t last more than 24 hours. She talked aloud to herself about where each item
should go.
I excused myself to go to the restroom down the street. There I splashed cold water onto
my face. In the worn mirror I could see how much I looked like her. Same creases under the
eyes, same crooked mouth. If I’d felt like smiling, I would have seen her smiling back at me.
Although normally I thought cosmetic surgery was for cyborgs and people utterly lacking in selfworth, at that moment, I kind of got it. Why should anyone be doomed every day to stare back at
the features of the people who conceived them despite how painful it may be?
When I returned to the cabin, I said, “Mom, this place.” What? It stinks? You shouldn’t
die here? And if not, where? My house?
“I don’t need much,” she said.
“What about food? What if it gets very hot? Summer isn’t over yet. What if you get very
sick?”
“I’m already sick.”
“You know what I mean.”
“I won’t suffer,” she said. She sounded fierce and practiced as though she’d repeated
these words to herself. “That’s why I’m here. No hospitals. No treatments. I’ll be out before I
can count to ten. As for food, there’s a cafeteria at the Visitor’s Center. And you can take me to
the store to buy a fan if it makes you feel better.”
If it makes me feel better? Was this judgment? Or was she simply assuaging me? I
decided I didn’t care either way. A fan would make me feel better.
Despite her protests, I insisted on purchasing the fan, as well as every kind of snack
imaginable and cases of water and a whole lot else. I went on a shopping spree. I bought her a

Cinema Verite

16

lamp, a solar-powered lantern for trips to the bathroom in the dark, a battery-powered radio and
three packages of batteries. I pestered her to pick out some books and magazines. And did she
want a portable DVD player and movies? And heck, how about some art supplies? Might she
want to take up water color or pastels? And gum? Did she need chewing gum?
Now my mother was the one who was worried.
“This isn’t like you,” she said.
I surprised myself by throwing my arms around her right then and there in the check-out
line. My mother felt like limp celery in my arms, but I squeezed her anyway. I squeezed her until
she said she couldn’t breathe. When I let go, she dug around in her purse, muttering about
something she couldn’t find. I looked away too so that she wouldn’t see the tears forming in my
eyes.
I knew then that I had no intention of staying the night. I was spending money like the
apocalypse was upon us because it kind of was. I was going to leave my mother to die alone in a
rustic-as-rustic-gets cabin in Arkansas. I was trying to buy some kind of absolution despite that I
knew that not even buying her the moon would be enough.
But I was not Karen Cooper rising from the dead and doing her mother Helen off with a
masonry trowel, then feasting upon her flesh. I was Helen Cooper revised. I was walking out and
driving away. I was saving myself.
When we returned to the cabin, we had two hours before the park closed, so after
unloading the car for the second time that day and giving Jaspers some treats and a brief jaunt
outside the cabin, we headed to the park with my mother’s diamond digging supplies in tow.
As the sun grew heavier, my mother poured dirt onto her sifting screen, shook it back and
forth, fingered the pieces remaining, dumped, and repeated. I knelt down with her despite how

Cinema Verite

17

uncomfortable the grit would be on my legs and arms and in my shoes as I drove later that
evening—getting as far away from her as possible before stopping to rest for the night.
Then I watched her make her way over to the washing station, a long shot that included a
panoramic view of the grapefruit-pink sunset and the people scattered about digging and sifting
through thirty-seven acres of dirt for the two minuscule diamonds odds predicted would be
discovered that day. Then a medium-shot of her standing among a small crowd of earnest
diamond hunters washing and agitating their screens together. Then an iris-in that narrowed
further and further until all I could see was my mother’s head tilted back in a wild laugh, an
image that would break anybody’s heart.


