The bike was standing in the back garden, flaming red, all shiny and wonderful, precisely as I
had imagined it. This was the birthday present I had so longed for. But now that the bike was
there, reality sank in. My older brother read my feelings with the instinct of a predator,
grinned, and said:
“I bet you’re too scared to ride it, like with the roller skates you got for your birthday last
year.”
And there it was, the image of the sorry skates, dusted over and rusty, lying in a corner of the
shed, the ones I had begged for but never once tried out of fear of falling. How could I have
been so stupid to do the same thing again?

“Come with me, now, and I’ll teach you,” my father said, and I had no choice but to follow
him to the parking lot in front of our house. Oh no, I thought, I will fail! I can’t ride it! I will
fall off and cry! My father will be mad! He’ll laugh at me!
“Get on,” my father commanded, noticing my hesitation. “Don’t be a coward. We didn’t buy
you a bike to leave it standing in the shed. You’ll never get a present again if you don’t use
it.”
I lifted my right leg, but as I tried to swing it over the back of the bike, I hit the frame and
almost fell over.
“Come on, you klutz, lift your leg high,” my father cried, “you’re as stiff as a pole.”
My second attempt succeeded, and I landed on the saddle, sitting lopsided, with the seat
painfully jammed against my crotch.
“Put your feet on the pedals! How else are you going to ride the bloody thing!”

2

My father held on to the saddle and pushed the bike forward. He ran along for a few meters,
gave me a forceful shove, and let go. Then he walked off, eyeing from a distance how I made
my wobbly turns. I struggled to keep the bike going forward and to avoid hitting the curb or
bumping into a parked car. Why had my father left me alone instead of assisting me, catching
me in case I would fall off?
“Hold the handlebar straight! Keep pedaling! Maintain your speed!”
My father was leaning against the doorpost of our home, a cigarette dangling from the corner
of his mouth. I was all tense in the effort of keeping the bike going. How long was I supposed
to keep riding?
“Now turn around, slow down, and step off!”
Step off? How? My father hadn’t explained to me how. I went rigid and tried to take a firm
hold of the handlebar, but my hands were sweaty, and the rubber became slippery. How can
you want me to do something I haven’t done before? YOU should have taught me, instead of
walking away and laughing at me! I hate you!

Not knowing what to do, I just kept on riding my ridiculous rounds, the commands of my
father ringing in my ears. In a panic, I ran the bike full speed into a set of bushes alongside
the road and was catapulted over the handlebar. My head slammed against the hard soil and
for a moment I was out.

“I can’t breathe. I can’t breathe,” I tried to shout when I came to, but the shock of the fall had
caused me to hyperventilate, and my words came out as a wheeze. The neighbors came to the
rescue and carried me into the house. They laid me on the sofa in the living room, where my
mother looked at me in distress, wringing her hands in silence.

3

My father shook his head and said:
“The stupid boy can’t even ride a bike without falling off.”
Subsequently, he lost interest in coaching me, and I was too ashamed to mount the bike on
my own. One afternoon, a few weeks after my failure, my brother took the bike out of the
shed and made his first rounds. He struggled but didn’t fall off.

The evening of my birthday we ate cooked endive, which my father had ordered my mother
to prepare. It was his favorite dish, but I loathed it. The mucous gunk on my plate made me
gag, and I couldn’t bring myself to take a bite.
“You will eat what your mother has served! You won’t leave the table before you have
finished your plate!” my father shouted. I picked up a spoonful of the food, but the sight of
the slimy stuff made me gag again.
“Eat it!” my father cried, grabbing me by the neck and pushing my head down, close to the
plate. I started crying.
“Oh my God,” my father grumbled. “First the bike drama, and now this. You’re such a
pussy.” He gave me another push and left. The back door slammed shut. Without saying a
word, my mother took the plate away and served me a sandwich instead.

An hour later, my father returned.
“Tomorrow morning,” he announced in a loud voice, “you will accompany me at my delivery
round. You’ll sit at the back, and I will show you how to ride a bike like a man. We’ll leave
early and you won’t have breakfast. That’ll teach you what genuine hunger means, as we
experienced during the war. If you’re starving, you won’t be so picky anymore, you’ll eat
anything, even things you do not ‘like’.”
“But Louis,” my mother started, but she didn’t finish her line.

4

#

Click! My father closed the worn-out leather purse in which the silver coin had disappeared
and remounted the cargo bicycle. We had just delivered freshly baked bread to a farmer in the
countryside. I sat on the luggage rack and braced myself for the departure while the cold
metal bars pressed into my buttocks. As we took off, the bike shot left and right until it
gained enough speed and went straight ahead. From that moment on, I changed my position
to resist the push and pull movements that my father caused by turning the pedals. At each
push, the wheels sped up with a force, before rolling out until the next push. This repetitive
movement induced a carnival-like nausea and a tickle of the stomach, which I tried to
withstand in vain.

We had left home early this morning, my mother watching us from behind the living room
window. She wore a pale dressing gown and her arms dangled beside her body. She looked
like a lifeless doll and didn’t wave goodbye. Despite the nausea, I was hungry now. The light
of the rising sun was blinding and forced me to look down. Under my feet, the road flashed
by, increasing the giddiness in my stomach even more. At each address, my father chatted
with the farmers. Progress was slow and the delivery round took ages.

Whzz, whzz, whzz...

The cargo bike’s tires sped over the smooth asphalt road that shone deep black in the morning
light. The cold air caused goosebumps to appear on my bare legs. I shivered. My father wore
a brown jacket of a crude fabric, the back piece of which fell just below the edge of the

5

saddle. Although terrified that I would fall off, I did not dare to hold on to it. Still, on an
impulse, I again and again moved my hands toward the saddle where the two rigid coil
springs were squeezed alternately under the weight of my father’s body. But each time I shied
away from grabbing the coils at the last moment, afraid of the pain if my fingers got caught.
At each push of the pedals, the scene unfolded before my eyes. The coils squeezed and
squeezed, winking and grinning maliciously.

At one farm, an old woman smiled at me, and said to my father: “Is this your son? What a
brave boy!”
“Yes, this is my son,” my father replied. “He became ten yesterday!”
His hand landed on my shoulder. I stretched my body and stood straight, like a serviceman.
“Almost as tall as his dad already!”
She handed me a slice of sausage.
“I am sure you’ll like this.”
A yellow slimy string of spittle stretched between palate and tongue in the woman’s mouth
before snapping in soundless slow motion. I gagged, grabbed the slice, and turned away to
run off.
“Hey, can’t you say ‘Thank you’?” my father shouted. Without looking at the old woman, I
produced a pinched ‘thank you’. But the slice disgusted me, and I threw it away while we
were on our way again, making sure my father didn’t notice.

We moved to the next address. The wicker basket attached at the front of the bike creaked
and the lid rattled. It sounded as if it tried to warn us, but the leather strap that tied it to the
basket didn’t leave enough space, and what it attempted to say smothered to a grumble.

6

In the area where we rode now, the farms were lying further apart. On the flatland, the wind
took a firm run-up, as if attempting to hold us back. The sky was full of cumulus clouds,
threatening, towering high. My father toiled and cursed under his breath. We were swaying
again. Around us, there were wide green pastures and dead straight blue ditches in which the
morning light glared.

A row of tall trees indicated the road to an isolated peasant’s house. The bike made a sharp
turn, and we rode over a gravel pathway to the courtyard of the farm. A dog barked. The bike
came to a standstill and I got off. The bars of the metal luggage rack left painful dents in my
behind, and my legs were stiff.
“Now don’t you dare touch the bread!” my father said and walked off. I took a stroll to ease
the wooden feeling and forget the hunger. At the front door of the farmhouse, my father
started talking to a young girl. The tough attitude he displayed at home melted into a soft,
welcoming demeanor. He gesticulated and talked his head off. The girl laughed.

I moved off to the large barn that was situated beside the farm. A heavy growl stopped me in
my tracks. Behind a high fence at the end of a fallow terrain, something was moving. It
seemed like a bundle of hair, and at first, I couldn’t discern what it was. Then I recognized
two dogs, one behind the other. They were connected, the one at the back leaning on the other
one with his legs while moving his hips back and forth. The scene frightened me, but I
couldn’t take my eyes off it. My throat ran dry. The silence was overwhelming, and time
seemed to stand still. From a doghouse at the front, near the fence, a puppy came forward. As
I knelt to cuddle the little dog, a deep growl stopped me. The dog at the back of the two had
come loose and now looked at me with sallow eyes, showing his sharp teeth. Under its belly,
a piece of pink flesh was dangling. With disgust, I turned around and ran off.

7

The front door of the farmhouse was ajar. My father and the girl had disappeared. Where had
they gone? I sneaked into the farmhouse, afraid to make a noise. The dark long hallway was
paved with black-and-white tiles like a large stretched out chessboard. At the end, a feeble
light shone through a door, silhouettes moving behind it, voices whispering, giggling. I smelt
baked bread and swallowed. Step by step I moved in the door’s direction, pushed forward by
hunger, making sure to tread on the white tiles only. I was convinced that things would be
okay as long as I stayed on the white tiles. If I touched a black tile, my father would surely
appear and scorn me for disobeying and having entered the farmhouse. Zigzagging and
hopscotching, I went deeper and deeper into the corridor. If only I could reach the door at the
end of the corridor. If only I could avoid the stupid mistakes I always made. If only this
once...

A loud cry burst into my ears. A girl shrieked. The heavy sound of chairs tumbling bounced
through the hallway.
“What the heck do you think you’re doing with my daughter?” a woman’s voice cried.
I lost my balance and stepped on a black tile. The door at the end flung open. A sudden flash
of light blinded me, and steps were approaching. I quickly turned and ran outside. My father
stumbled behind me. We mounted the bike and flew out of the courtyard, swaying left and
right. At the sharp turn, I noticed an old woman raging and shaking a clenched fist. The
young girl was nowhere to be seen.
“Don’t you dare to come back!” the woman shouted.
What is she mad about? I thought. Have I done something wrong? Will I get punished for
having entered the corridor? It was as if the old woman’s fist clenched my stomach.

8

The bike zigzagged like a drunkard, and we shot toward the ditches left and right. The lid of
the wicker basket had come loose and rattled like a madman, but my father failed to listen. I
would now have to grab the coils if I didn’t want to fall off the bike. I pinched my eyes,
stretched my arms in the saddle’s direction and...

The world had tilted, and I was lying on the ground, in a patch of grass alongside the road.
The bike was several feet away in the ditch, the lid of the wicker basket wide open, torn
askew. The saddle had turned on its axis and pointed to the heavens. The leather purse had
fallen on the ground, displaying its empty inside.

On the other side of the ditch, my father was struggling to get up. Blinking pieces of silver
were lying about him in the grass. He was cursing and there was a hole in his pants, white
skin shining through. He cast me a hurt look and suddenly seemed small, the bleeding red
scratches on his knee like mine when I fell during play.

Around me, loaves of bread were strewn, golden and fragrant, like manna from heaven. I
picked one up and took a firm bite.

Then I lay down and took a deep, reassuring, and relaxing breath. The sky had turned a
spotless, peaceful blue. There wasn’t a cloud in heaven.

Tomorrow I’ll ride my bike, I thought. Tomorrow I’ll ride it up and down in front of our
house, in front of the living room window where my mother can see me. Tomorrow I’ll ride
my bike like a king and make her smile.


