Ned controlled MQ-9 Reapers and Julia encouraged elderly couples to put downpayments on town houses in Fort Lauderdale. They were silent. But the external a/c unit,
attached below the open window, whispered and clanked. Julia sat upright with her arms crossed
over her spaghetti-strap shirt, tilting her head forward. The room smelt like sweaty feet from the
pile of socks on the shag rug in front of the couch. Ned lay supine, head towards the wall
underneath the window, one leg on the floor and the other close to his ass, and he wasn’t wearing
socks. They had met on the computer, at some rest-stop off the Internet. The couch had green
cloth and holes which exposed yellow padding, cigarette burns, dark stains. Ned counted the
mold spots on his ceiling but often forgot the number, and so he kept starting over.
“Can you explain this to me again?” Julia asked while staring forward, wearing flip flops
which revealed her purple toenail polish, fading. She never wore makeup and kept her dark
brown hair in a loose ponytail, had glasses, thin black frames, and these were all things Ned said
he loved about her, before she moved here, yesterday.
“It’s really just me. And I’m sorry. I really mean it.”
“Can you explain to me how you just all of a sudden change your mind? How now, after
I’ve given up my life, left my family, left my mom—my mom has Alzheimer’s, Ned. Ned! And
you can’t even sit up to tell me this. You can’t even look me in the face.”
Ned smelt her Dove scentless deodorant and counted.
“This was a mistake and it’s my fault, asking you to move out here and do this. I guess,
it’s just.” His thought climbed out the window.

Shake Feet and Trade Hares Already
2
Cargo trucks revved and idled around the box buildings on the flat base with sparse blueeyed grass and Joshua trees.
Julia stood up, arms out, squinting her eyes and wondering if this asshole was the same
person who made her simultaneously laugh and cry via Skype with his impressions of George W.
Bush addressing graduating kindergarteners. If he was the same person who sent her unsolicited
emails containing poetry that repeated her name in every line—i.e., Julia is like a
chrysanthemum, or Julia is like chapstick—that she would read at her realty office and be too
embarrassed to show her friends but think it sweet anyways, the poems, the effort.
And now Ned sat up, glanced at Julia, and then exhaled through his mouth. He stopped
smiling because it wasn’t funny, he knew. He put his elbows on his knees and hung his head,
rubbing the back of his black hair, buzzed white.
“This isn’t easy for me either, you know. I’m just. It’s different. Things can’t be like they
were. It all feels so, overwhelming, in a way.” Ned talked with his hands over his mouth, staring
at the peeling brown wall across from him, at the small TV on a wooden plank propped by cinder
blocks. He then looked above the TV at the poster of Cove Beach, on Turtle Island in Fiji, white
and blue everywhere, and he imagined himself wearing aviators with his feet dug into the hot
sand. He had never been to Fiji, seen it only from the internet, photographs.
“Can’t be like? Of course it can’t! I’m a person and now I’m actually in front of you!
We’re going to get married! How…You’re ridiculous. Fuck you. Fuck, you.” And her voice
shook on that, and her flip flops flopped against her crusted heels as she slammed the door which

Shake Feet and Trade Hares Already
3
bounced back open, partly. Ned stared at the poster, hearing the banging above his ceiling, heavy
steps from fellow compatriots.
Ned closed his eyes, sighing, remembering he was still the only colonel of the CIA’s
Special Activities Division without a spouse or family. Granted he was still the youngest, and
thinnest, colonel of the CIA’s Special Activities Division. Col. N. Dalfont, he was called around
these parts. The only colonel who lived in the barracks, Col. N. Dalfont. He stood up, rubbing
the sides of his head, breathing from his mouth.
He closed the door, and then stopped at the kitchen’s sticky plastic counter top, smelling
the dried soda, and he looked into the sink, rusted at the edges. The trash can to the right of the
counter was over stuffed, spilling soda cans and plastic bags and empty strawberry jelly jars onto
the linoleum tiles.
Ned kept a Sig Sauer SP2022 9mm, all black, on the counter with the clip, a Plus Two,
next to the gun. With the Plus Two clip the gun held 17 bullets with an additional round in the
chamber. He had a clipdraw attached to the barrel’s stock, so he could carry it on his waist
without a holster. Ned had never shot the gun. He took the gun in his hand and chambered it,
tightening his palm against the cold grip, and he flipped the decocking lever up and down. The
Sig Sauer SP2022 9mm has no safety. With the decocking lever up, the gun turns double action,
meaning 10 pounds of force is needed to pull the first round, which is 6 pounds more than when
the lever is down.

Shake Feet and Trade Hares Already
4
It was June. The four burger patties with Kraft cheese slices and tomato soup and two
bowls of Cheerios he’d had for lunch had his stomach shaking. There was a George Forman grill
to the left of the sink, beneath the crooked cupboard with a slanted door.
He went to his television, which didn’t have cable, used solely for games, an Xbox and
PS4 and Wii on the plank with it. And beside the right cinder block were stacks of video games,
all the same height, sorted alphabetically and by console. Ned tapped his fingers on the counter,
clicking the decocking lever. Next to the games there was one controller for each console, and
every controller pointed the same way, towards the door.
He missed Julia already and wished she was still here because he’d gotten over the smile
thing he did when he was nervous about making a mistake. He wanted to tell her, straight face,
sunken eyes, that he was capital S sorry. His dell laptop was next to his TV. He set the gun down
and took the laptop to the couch, slouched back, and scanned through pictures of them, from
when they met every three or six months, for one or two weeks.
Pictures at the beach in Fort Lauderdale. Pictures of her wearing his fatigues and him
wearing her glasses. Pictures of them with their fingers held like guns next to an F/A-18 Hornet
on the runway. When he told her he loved her he meant it. She was the first one he’d ever told
his dad about, who responded by rolling his eyes and smirking.
Scanning pictures, Ned thought about last night, the first night they’d spent together in
months, remembering when they tried to cuddle in his twin bed, her head over his shoulder and
arm, and he had lost circulation, tingling, from the pressure of her body, and so they tried
spooning, but her hair got in his mouth, and she didn’t like him breathing on her neck, and after

Shake Feet and Trade Hares Already
5
about thirty minutes they took opposite sides of the bed and he gave her the covers. There had
not been any I Need You Sex, like when he visited Florida. Ned closed the laptop.
There was more banging upstairs, laughter. His room was hot and his cool sweat soaked
the stiff fatigues. Ned looked out the window at lavender mountains shadowed by creeping
clouds, blurred from the blue sky’s mist, the barbed wire around the base. He sniffed, clearing
his throat, swallowing phlegm. He wasn’t going to cry. Didn’t do that. Ever.
Some two hours earlier he had executed a very successful attack over the Tappi village,
33.22º N. latitude and 69.22º E. longitude, using a MQ-9 Reaper. The unofficial causalities were
somewhere around 20. And after the missile had hit, he hi-fived Tony, a bald colonel who lived
in a house with his wife and three kids off Post, in front of a jungle gym.
Ned’s bed sheets weren’t made, and he wondered if it smelt like her, the bed, but he
decided to sleep on the couch for a while, if he slept. Ned rubbed his upper arm, rubbed the
tattoo. He trudged to the kitchen and took a Mountain Dew from the yellowed refrigerator and
then turned on the TV, blue screen, and put Grand Theft Auto 5 in the Xbox, took a controller
and sat on the couch.
Julia had brought him GTA5 yesterday.
He’d read on IGN that GTA5, in comparison to past Grand Theft Autos, was better
because of the story line, meaning the game’s narrative was somewhat intelligible compared to
earlier versions.
With the Xbox controller in his hands Ned quickly tried to put together a narrative of
Julia, of what he knew about her. She was born in Florida, or Nebraska. She got her real estate

Shake Feet and Trade Hares Already
6
license after something happened with her dad. She said she loved him. She liked carnivals, but
hated clowns, maybe vice versa. And…
The game’s jazzy theme music played and he selected story mode, setting his elbows on
knees. Ned watched his character stand still on the screen, waiting on a sidewalk amidst glitzy
cars and passerbys. He wondered what his mom would say about him ending it with Julia. He
wondered what his dad would say. Ned dropped the controller down on the pile of socks and shut
off the Xbox, leaving the screen blue. The TV whined.
He rubbed the top of his arm, the tattoo of the backwards American Flag. It had happened
his first weekend at the Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, out with other cadets despite
having BMT in the morning, and they’d drank Popov and he ended up with a backwards
American flag bordered by puffy red skin on the top of his arm. Ned hadn’t fired a pistol or
semi-automatic assault rifle, or consumed alcohol, since BMT.
He walked back to the window and watched the trucks roll by, watched people in
camouflage with pointed hats carrying clipboards, the smell of diesel exhaust. The two week
leave that he’d planned to spend with Julia started tomorrow, and now he wondered if he’d stay
here or go somewhere, anywhere. Even home. There was an alarm that sounded once a week at
five, a test, which went off now, a honking noise. The mountains seemed far off and beautiful, he
thought. He picked up his iPhone from the couch and called Julia, getting the automated
voicemail. Ned decided not to leave a message, yet. There was more banging from upstairs. He
watched a plume of dust whirlpool to a hot breeze while a crossed shadow from an unmanned
aircraft sliced across the sun-bleached plains.

Shake Feet and Trade Hares Already
7
Going home was a possibility. It had been awhile. Ned didn’t have much desire to go
home ever since he returned from the academy and found his dad, Jeff, lying in bed, fully
dressed, with a wool blanket pulled over his body and face, mumbling so the blanket creased
around his mouth, dress shoes sticking out at the bottom, and then he, Ned, soon after finding his
dad in such a state, discovered his mother’s note, which related her decision to leave the family
and move to Fiji with a bank teller she’d met. So now when he did go home, ten years after the
incident, it was for his dad’s sake, mostly. Neither Jeff nor Ned had heard from her since she left.
He closed the window and took another sip of bitter soda.
&&
“We’ve been lighting up the place. I mean its daily. And I’m not just talking the actual
strikes, but we have surveillance all around. I can’t think of a time we’ve been more secure. I
mean as a country. Late nineties, late eighties. Maybe. But the Reaper has its own satellite link,
its own colored TV camera and even infrared sensors. We have these going twenty-four hours. In
the villages in the mountains—what are they called…Anyways in these villages, right, we’re
flying over all these caves. Everything. The women all wearing those things. We can see all of
this. I always joke to the guys. I’m like, ‘Now this is reality TV,’ Ha. And you know when you
start thinking about World War 2. Roosevelt wanted them then, he’d started this research project
to have bats carry bombs. I’m talking you know, little kerosene tubes, time release stuff. And
he’d wanted them to get all these bats on the planes and just let them go over the target. Sure
now this seems absurd. Bunch of bats on a plane, yeah right. But it led to this! Just look how we
can protect ourselves now. Yeah, I’ll have another one. Just leave it open. Here. But um, so yeah
look at what we can do now, and from starting with bats on planes. That’s progress. Imagine

Shake Feet and Trade Hares Already
8
what we’ll be able to do in twenty years. Fifty years. From the satellite I can see their dogs
fucking, dad. Think about that. I’m watching these people’s mutts fuck and them sit around,
their little dinner table, with no freaking idea. I’m like a ghost in the room. I’m there and I’m
sitting in Creech at the same time. We’re a whole squad of ghosts winning wars behind computer
screens. ”
Finished speaking, Ned looked at his father, waiting, expecting a response. But his dad,
former Private Jeff Dalfont, sat at the bar with his face close to his orange juice and vodka, a
screwdriver, focused on the maplewooden counter’s knots while fractured shards of sunlight
tripped in from the soap spotted window to his right, Jeff’s right, which showed the metallic
frames of skyscrapers and beaten brick buildings and tinted glares of windows in Boston’s west
end, where Jeff lived, and where Ned listed as his hometown although he hadn’t moved here
until he was seventeen. Across from Ned and Jeff hung a plasma TV, showing footage of victims
seizuring from a chemical weapons attack in Syria, muted.
“Hey. Scuse me. But you aren’t in the service, are you?” The bartender, a man with a
shaved head and a single diamond earring, asked Ned. The bartender held up Ned’s USAA
Mastercard.
“Yeah…I am.” Ned gulped his beer.
“Well thanks. Thank you, for what you do and all.”
Ned nodded and looked down. The bartender turned to the register.
The bar, McDougle’s, off Garfield and Oxford, had become Jeff’s favorite when he first
moved to Boston because it was the first bar he’d tried. He liked the fish and chips and deals on

Shake Feet and Trade Hares Already
9
domestic beer, Miller on tap, like straight not the lite. McDougle’s no longer served fish and
chips, and didn’t have Miller on tap, just the lite. Upbeat house music blared from speakers
angled downward at the bar. Today was Ned’s birthday, two days after the incident with Julia.
Jeff hadn’t told him happy birthday, which was fine, Ned thought, because it wasn’t a big deal
anyways and because Jeff hadn’t wished him happy birthday since basically forever.
Ned had his Sig Sauer SP2022 9mm attached to his waist, with his shirt tucked over the
gun, giving him a strange hip-node. He shifted his weight left and right on the stool, feeling the
barrel poke against the bottom of his hip. It had been an inconvenience to check the Sig Sauer
SP2022 9mm with security at the airport, but he knew it was worth it. He wondered if his dad
heard him. Ned followed his father and looked down, eyeing his beer’s shadow which angled left
on the counter.
Jeff brought his lips down to the drink, spreading his elbows further out and sloping his
bony back forwards. The bartender said something indecipherable to Jeff, which Jeff responded
to by nodding and holding up his index finger. The stools at the bar were short, and to the left,
along the narrow walls, were lines of cherrywooden tables. The bartender was turned around,
facing the American Flag next to the BOSTON STRONG sign above the mirror and glass bottles.
People, all around and about Ned’s age, thirty, sat at the tables and laughed and gasped but
couldn’t be heard. Besides Jeff and Ned, no one was stationed at the bar.
Ned drank his Bud Light, elbows on counter, and felt the carbonation spread through his
sinuses. The bartender gave Jeff another screwdriver, changed the TV’s channel to ESPN, turned
up the volume, and then walked left, yelling and gesticulating. Ned looked at his father, who had
deep wrinkles and no eyebrows, wispy hair combed to the right, visible liver spots on his scalp,

Shake Feet and Trade Hares Already
10
and a steep forehead which darkened his eyes. When Ned looked at Jeff, like now, he rubbed his
own face, checking his reflection in the dusty mirror across from him. They had the same nose
with wide pores and right angled chin.
But when Ned had looked at his father’s features years ago, he wanted to be just like his
dad. Wanted to be a military man. Wanted to make his father proud. Because Jeff hadn’t been
like Elena, Ned’s mom, who had told him how proud she was when he remembered to do
laundry, or take out the trash.
Ned couldn’t remember his dad’s age, but thought it over sixty, or around. While he
watched Jeff sip from his screwdriver with a slurping sound, Ned decided he pitied his dad. Jeff
wore a beige windbreaker over a white shirt with Arizona written on the front. He had served
during peace times. When there was a war, Desert Storm, for example, Jeff had been hurt, had a
broken ankle which circumstances were still gooey around. This was inconvenient for Ned.
Because, as a kid, when he explained that his father was in the military to his grade school
friends, told them his dad was a badass killer, they asked which war and he said none, and so
they didn’t believe Ned and thus pummeled him, every time. But Jeff claimed to have been in
one battle of sorts, the invasion of Grenada, which he often recounted to Ned, when they were in
the garage. Although when Ned cross-checked facts with his mother, like when he asked if it was
true that Jeff was shot twice in the head but had still saved the hostages during said battle of
sorts, his mom said That’s not true. He missed that about his mother. And so Ned was forever
suspect about his father’s stories from the only battle of sorts he had claimed to be in. And Ned,
now, knew his father, who wasn’t in the marines or special forces, in fact couldn’t have invaded
Grenada, which meant all the kids that pummeled him for being a liar growing up were right.

Shake Feet and Trade Hares Already
11
“You know you’re the oldest guy in this place? Right? The fuck you still come here for?
It’s changed dad.” Ned clenched the pint as the perspiration dribbled onto his hand, watching
wrinkles on his father’s short neck and temples crease. His dad smelt like baby powder.
Ned put his hands under the counter but felt dried gum and then brought them back up,
resting his elbows, rubbing the sides of his head. He shifted in his seat. There were white foam
slices in his pint from where the beer receded. Ned wore Aisic running shoes which he always
double knotted and a grey t-shirt with Army written on the breast. Ned checked his iPhone to see
if Julia had texted him back, which she hadn’t, and then he quickly stopped at Twitter and
zoomed over to Instagram before putting the phone back in his tight pocket. He shifted his
weight on the stool. Ned had suggested to Julia via email that they reestablish their long distance
relationship until he was ready to try living together again. Julia hadn’t responded, yet.
“Can-You-Hear-Me?” Ned said, leaning forward. Jeff took another sip from his
screwdriver, tilting it barely off the table with his chapped lips wrapped around the rim.
Ned knew that his dad, the meter man, was jealous of him, jealous of his success. The
bar’s door opened and then closed. Ned looked past his dad, seeing the edge of the bar drop off
and the shadowed chairs speckled with light below the window, the cars and people and food
vendors and umbrella salesman outside.
“I can hear you fine,” Jeff said. The yellowish ice cubes in the glass Jeff had just finished
still had their form. “I like this place. People are nice. More than I can say for some people. Why
the fuck do I care if they’re younger than my kid.” Jeff drank and rolled his eyes.

Shake Feet and Trade Hares Already
12
On the other side of the counter, where the bartender would usually pour drinks, shot
glasses and pints were arranged in stacks, recently washed, and Ned scanned over their glares.
“What is it then? What did I ever do to you? Huh? You can’t even live your own life just
because mom left years, years ago. And so it’s my fault? Is that why you’re jealous of me?
Everything I’ve done that you never could?” Ned watched himself say this in the mirror, saw all
the dollar bills signed with sharpie that were taped to the wall behind him, taped behind the
bottles across from him at the bar, and he saw Jeff drink with a smile.
The ceiling had pipes twisting and turning, humming, with bulbs which were currently
off.
“You don’t feel it now…You’ll probably never feel it.” Jeff stared in the mirror too,
smiling, sliding onto the stool which had previously been empty between him and his son. “But
you sit there, behind your little computer screen and think you’re doing man’s work. Doing the
type of stuff I did back in the day. But if you knew what it really looked like. Knew the
difference between pushing a stupid little button and pulling a trigger and having your shoulder
nearly fall off, alright. If you had to look one of those people in the face. See what you’d done.
Seen a real man’s work up close. You wouldn’t be talking like that. No way no how. You said,
Reality TV. ‘It’s like reality TV dad.’ Fuck that ain’t TV. This here’s TV. What you’re doing,
it’s all scripted bullshit. They have you playing God with a keyboard, fucking pathetic. And you
think I’m jealous? Of you? I pity you. My son the soldier. My son, the extension of some
computer thingy.”

Shake Feet and Trade Hares Already
13
Ned smelt the orange juice and sweet Vodka coming off his father, and he watched Jeff
remove his windbreaker. Ned stared at his father’s vascular forearm, where he had a faded green
American flag tattoo. Jeff took his glass, smiled in the mirror, and then emptied the yellow
liquid, smacking his lips and chewing ice. He left crumpled bills on the bar as he wobbled off the
stool and made for the door, wrapping the windbreaker around his waist. Ned watched Jeff turn
left, lost in the mouth of people, and then finished his beer. Liquid fell from his lips, exploding
on the woodwork.
His dad didn’t know what the fuck he was talking about. Didn’t know shit. A man’s
work. He pressed a key and erased half a mountain. That was man’s work. A smart, guiltless
man. The future’s man.
&&&&&&&
They didn’t give peanuts on the red-eye flight but Ned drank two beers, mid-air, on his
way back to Nevada. One night and half a day in Boston with his father had been enough.
He’d tried to call Julia from Logan airport. Had blocked his number and called. And then
he created a Facebook account for one Ted Soltant from Fort Lauderdale and sent her a friend
request. Had left voicemails on her work number as potential customers.
When he landed in Las Vegas, he picked up his checked bag and then the Sig Sauer
SP2022 9mm from security, which had only 5 unloaded rounds with it, TSA policy.
He drove his Jeep back to base and when he’d grabbed his camo bag from the trunk the
night was a viscous black with a jittery breeze. In the brick barracks some bedroom lights were
on. He grinded his teeth together as he slammed his door shut, kicked it all the way closed, and

Shake Feet and Trade Hares Already
14
then threw his bag on the floor. The room smelt like he’d left it, soda and feet. He’d been stuck
on what his father said.
A man’s work.
Ned walked over to his Xbox and threw it against the wall behind his couch. He did the
same to his Playstation, and then the Wii, and then the laptop. He kicked the stacks of games,
sending some into the sock pile. He punched the wall above the couch four times. Moonlight
sifted through the vinyl blinds, turning his red hands silver. He saw the hooked outline of the far
off mountains, thought them disgusting. Ned took a skip step and turned and kicked the TV to
the opposite side of the room, falling onto the plank and causing it to splinter and crack. He stood
back up and lifted a cinder block over his head and then brought it down, the chalky smell when
it hit the floor. With his hands on his knees, he listened to the tall halogen lights stationed around
the base, inhaling and exhaling from his mouth, squinting his eyes.
He kicked and tripped over diffuse articles as he went to his fridge. The cool air wrapped
around his sweaty neck as he opened a Mountain Dew and threw his head back, inhaling through
his nose and mouth. He crushed the can and threw it on the floor, hearing the slight tapping
above him.
A man’s work.
Ned pulled the Sig Sauer SP2022 9mm from his waist, flicking the decocking lever up
and down. He stared out the window across from him, seeing the lights cut shadows against the
base and divide his living room floor into crushed stars and stripes. Ned wanted to look someone
who he hated in the eyes and watch them melt away. He racked the Sig Sauer SP2022 9mm,

Shake Feet and Trade Hares Already
15
catching the gold spark of the chambered bullet, hearing the flat click. He marched through the
kitchen. Marched through his bedroom which still smelt like Julia’s deodorant. Marched into his
narrow bathroom.
He turned on the light, which flickered, and then cleared his throat and spit at his
reflection in the mirror above the sink, lurching his whole body forward. Tendrils of saliva
dragged down the tilted mirror. He flared his nostrils, stared. The shower curtain was pulled to
one side behind him and he could see the Neutrogena Frizz Free shampoo on the shelf where
Julia had left it.
Ned pushed the Sig Sauer SP2022 9mm’s barrel against his right temple, held his breath,
digging the polymer into his skin, like he was saluting, like posing on his graduation and he
watched his pupils dilate while standing on tippy-toes and punching the counter and smelling the
rubber grip, and snot came out of his nose all over his wrist and he was blinking and
remembering that only the tip of your finger went over the trigger, and he had left the decocking
lever off which meant he was 4 pounds of force away from ending 150 pounds of a sorry shit of
a life.
He thought about his life. He remembered wearing his dad’s fatigues which smelt like
moth balls and army crawling across the polyester couch in their living room. The way his
mother put her cold hands on his ears when she kissed his forehead. He remembered being an
only child and watching video game consoles change, graphics improve, but staying up with
Mountain Dew on school nights to finish a game’s story mode and then ace an exam the next
morning. He remembered meeting cadets in BMT and thinking they were all laughing at him

Shake Feet and Trade Hares Already
16
while he slept on the top bunk. When he first met Julia, in person, she had cried at dinner while
relating the loss of her twin sister, and had said she didn’t care if he saw her cry.
Ned pulled the Sig Sauer SP2022 9mm down and threw up in the sink, coughing, closing
his eyes, dry heaving. He wiped his mouth with the back of his hand, and looked at his red face
in the mirror.
&
Outside there was a hot rain and lightning over the mountains, grey clouds, and the plains
darkened while the Joshua trees’ leaves shook. He didn’t pack his Jeep and left his apartment as
it had been, left the George Foreman grill, left the Mountain Dew in the fridge, the game
consoles, the sheets which smelt like her. He stood in the doorway now, looking out through the
window, the lightning, the thunder. Ned had turned in his Christmas colored badges and medals,
but left the fatigues on the floor. They told him to take the time to clear his head but he said he
didn’t need it. The cargo trucks eased through the mud and people yelled to each other over the
rain. Ned rubbed his tattoo. He went to bed and woke up and hadn’t decided differently. Going to
Florida, to Fort Lauderdale, tell her Sorry, tell her he was ready. He looked at the Sig Sauer
SP2022 9mm on the counter, next to the kitchen sink. The gun pointed towards the window,
towards the mountains. Ned closed the door as he stepped into the rain, running towards the Jeep
with his shoes double knotted.


