Six years had passed. And other than remarks we both made minutes after everything
happened, Bridget and I never talked about the incident, exchanged calm, sober accounts of
what we each remembered. Life went on. In no way had it lived between us the way it did the
bigger group—our marriage and family had too many milestones and memories, incidents of its
own to let a disaster night with friends shape our relationship. But you can’t just file away the
big stuff—this I found out soon enough: the big stuff always comes back to bite, often when
you least expect.
I was in the living room, a lazy Saturday, watching the Sixers blow another double-digit
lead. Bridget, still in scrubs, had poked her head out to grab the mail and was now slowly
passing my recliner, squinting into a piece of paper as if the student loan people had finally
decided to garnish my wages.
She’d disappeared behind the wall and started mumbling as she opened a kitchen
cabinet. I thought I knew then what she’d been reading (social media has taken a toll on the
element of surprise). I sipped my beer and dug deep into a Pringles tin. I waited, watched the
game. She was laughing now, a signal, my cue maybe, and I called in to ask what was so funny.


And then she was back in the living room, standing right above me, holding a save-the-date
card less than a foot from my face. “We’re not going!” she said.
This wasn’t Bridget behavior. She never even alluded to making decisions for me. This
was in part why she was great, different, not the type of wife my friends were long tired of but
too stuck in the mud to make a move from. “I’m not going” would have been more like Bridget.
I laughed. “What do you mean?”
She moved the card back but kept it held out like a fencing sword. En-garde! “What do I
mean?” she said. “You’re kidding me.”
“People have the right to get remarried, Bridg.”
“Sure they do . . . and their invites have the choice to say yes or no.”
“Sounds like you’re not letting me make that choice.”
“You actually think you’re going to this?”
I raised a palm, made a face. “What’s your deal?”
She moved over closer, was blocking the game now. Bulgy eyes. She was giving me that
look—we all know that look, different for each wife—that says, I let a lot of things slide, but not
this!
“I know you don’t like him—that’s fine—but I’ve known the guy since fifth grade,” I said
trying to bend my head around a still-tight body I should’ve given more attention. “I don’t like
tons of your friends either but I—”
“My . . . Hah!” She started laughing maniacally, blinking her eyes, looking behind her as
if pretend people, Ashton Kutcher and film crew, were about to open our basement door and

2

Friendsgiving
tell her I was only kidding. “My—my friends,” she said. I was in trouble now. “My ‘tons’ of
friends who . . . who you don’t like—they don’t beat their fucking spouses.”
Six years of silence packed a hell of a punch—the tingles and butterflies, heavy legs, that
weird frozen feeling you got the first time you saw an ex after the breakup. So I did what I
always did when the shit hit the fan—I fled. I paused the game and went for the fridge: another
beer. She was following behind, the card still in her hand like a weapon.
“Please tell me you’re not being serious right now, Dan.”
When Bridget cursed, said fuck especially, you knew she was pissed. But when she
called you by name when it wasn’t necessary—that’s when all hope was lost. And I knew then
that a beer wouldn’t help, that the game was probably staying paused, that the day, the week
even, was likely ruined. I turned from the fridge. The card—a picture of Tim and his new young
thing—was facing me again, held out like it was one of Declan’s disaster Math tests he said he’d
studied for, and I was Declan, the kid, who wasn’t telling mommy the truth, who was in trouble
for shocking her with this absolutely unacceptable bombshell. And I responded like he would,
like a child: “What”? I said. “Why are you making a big deal?”
That look again. But this time with even bulgier eyes and her teeth clenched tight, face a
bit tilted, as if ready to rock back and headbutt me into the corner cabinet she hadn’t yet
closed. “Oh, I forgot,” she said, “you weren’t sure he ‘definitely’ hit her. (Air quotes are another
thing Bridget does when crazy pissed.) “How can I forget,” she went on, “none of us were in the
room. She could have ‘fallen’ . . . because black eyes and bloody noses and cowering in a corner
while your husband flees the scene—that usually has ‘accidental fall’ written all over it.” She
stopped and stared and clenched those pretty white teeth again, shook her head for a second
3

Friendsgiving
or so, almost snarled, before calmly serving the knockout blow. “Man, Dan. One thing’s saying
that—another thing’s believing it. Or wait—you don’t believe it, do you? You just don’t care.”
I wanted to be in my chair again—standing-arguments were always too truculent, like
you were proclaiming participation in the battle. I wanted to admit defeat, tap out, sit down. I
wanted the remote and the TV, my Pringles and beer. I wanted to point at the basement door,
say Shhhh . . . let’s talk later—the kids . . . But they were both with our neighbors on a
Halloween hayride. And I’m not sure that would have mattered much anyway. Once Bridget
had said my name and fuck and made that face multiple times, was obsessively using air quotes
. . . it was too late for anything to stop her. She was going to say what she was going to say that
day and I don’t think the presence of anyone—her fellow book-club nurses or grannies she did
ceramics with or even her Eucharist-minister parents—nothing was stopping her.
“What does that have to do with his getting remarried,” I said. This was about as dumb a
thing I could have come back with—more fuel. Now not only would I be missing the game in
real time but she’d turn it off, making it impossible to rewind, playback what had passed. (My
watching sports while I could have been taking advantage of the kids being out, straightening
the basement a bit—this was the stuff she’d normally let fly.)
That look—again. “What—what does it have to do with getting re . . .” She was trying to
repeat what I said but was too incensed to get the words out.
“Yea, I said, “we . . . we don’t know what was going on in their marriage.”
“No, Dan—we actually do. He fucking beat the shit out of her while we sat in a room
twenty feet down the hall—that’s what was going on in their marriage.

4

Friendsgiving
As corny as flashbacks can be in movies and books, the prompting many times so
convenient in pulling forward the story, puppeteering the character’s thoughts, flashback did
indeed happen that very way at times, in real life, and the scene I hadn’t seen vividly in some
time now was reappearing: I was in my buddy’s apartment, Friendsgiving night, watching Tim
pull Ashley from the floor and towards the bedroom where she was supposed to be “lying
down” and “relaxing” while we had a few more drinks.
“Where the hell are you going?” Bridget said now. I’d left the kitchen, had gotten a
hoodie from the dining room closet, and was heading for the door, the car, the bar, the Sixers
game. It would make things worse later but stop the bleeding, the battle, for now.
And in the car and on into the bar the projection played on. I kept stopping and pausing
my thoughts, rewinding the scene the way I do the TV, bringing Ashley and Tim back to the
couch, telling them, well, anything to stop them from going into that room together.

***
He hit her. I knew that. She may have been the most annoying, worst drunk, I’d ever met, but
no man should ever lay a hand on a woman. The second half of that statement—“no man
should ever lay a hand on a woman”—was the only part I shared in the aftermath, always
adding “. . . if that was what happened.” I never used “but” or said anything before or after it.
(No man should ever lay a hand on a woman . . . but Ashley constantly flirted with bartenders—
right in front of Tim—and her idea of being a stay-at-home mom was arguing on the internet
with strangers while the kids were at daycare and pre-K, and then—then on weekends taking
the girls to their games or shows or birthday parties [the shit she wore, flirted with other dads
5

Friendsgiving
in, looked like it came straight from Taylor and Ella’s closets] all while Tim was working a second
job . . . but no man should ever lay a hand on a woman.)
There were endless stories—horror stories—about Ash. She was the disaster wife we’d
all gossiped about—all of us, for years: my buddies, their wives, girlfriends; I’m assuming even
Tim knew she was nuts but married her for some low self-esteem reason. But I wasn’t a
controversial guy—and “but” implied that something Ash did justified what Tim had. What
good came from “but . . .”? Journalists and talk show hosts, a mayor even, had lost jobs for
daring to use that precarious conjunction when it came to domestic abuse. No, I never said but.
No buts about it! As drunk as I was that night, I remember every remark I made about the
incident. I said that the situation was between them—and that was why I let them go back to
the room alone, that I hadn’t much issue with his pulling her—he was only pulling her because
of how thrashing, drunk, out of her fucking mind she was. (And this was the God’s honest truth:
back then I never thought guys I knew were capable of doing what Tim did—punching women,
wife beating, domestic violence was for bad Hollywood plots and roid-head athletes with
twelve different baby-mammas.) I also said that when I heard the first few thuds, I didn’t head
in because, well, Tim yelled out to us, said everything was fine, and I believed him, figured she’d
fallen getting into bed. “We all saw how hammered she was,” I said. All my friends, even the
wives and girlfriends, concurred. We were sitting, some standing, pacing, around the back
bedroom, the scene of the crime, the fifteen of us now that Tim was gone, trying to make sense
of what happened. We’d gone to an Italian place in Rittenhouse for our annual couples’ dinner
(the wives’ and girlfriends’ doing every late-November) and were having postgame drinks at my
buddy Noodle’s place. (Noods had no kids and was a ten-minute walk from Porcini’s.) We
6

Friendsgiving
weren’t in the apartment ten minutes before Ashley had spilled red wine, kept putting her hand
on my buddy Greg’s married knee and thigh, shouted Boooooooo when no one wanted to share
the blunt she was rolling, dropping everywhere, on the couch. She was heading outside with
her crumbling blunt, “Boooooooo,” she was slurring again, “you all suck big—” when she fell,
bam, as if a trip wire ran from the coffee table to the entertainment center. Cursing as she
crawled and picked pieces of weed from the rug, slapping away her husband’s hand as he bent
to pull her up—that’s when Noodles’ girlfriend offered the bedroom and Tim scooped up his
inebriated wife, bear-hugging her torso, dodging her flailing arms as she screamed down the
hall.
Ashley was on the bed now, lying quietly on her back, as if all the fight had been
knocked out of her. With pillows propping up her head, Bridget and my buddy Ziggy’s wife
(Courtney’s an X-ray tech or something) held ice packs on her nose and cheek while asking her
questions, simple ones about the year, the president, what she had for dinner. She was slurring,
her eyes drooping, from what we guessed were the shots she wouldn’t stop ordering at desert
(though we were all suspicious that there’d been more, before she got there, pills maybe, too).
Us being drunk and Ashley being completely smashed (Smashley was actually one of her
nicknames) was probably why we were summarizing the events right in front of her, as if her
condition was so altered that she couldn’t comprehend our conversation. “Should we take her
to the hospital, call the police even?” one of the wives asked. (Two of my friends were the
police—further complicating this mess.)
“Guys, stop. I fell,” Ashley mumbled. “Timmy would never . . .”

7

Friendsgiving
Tim had bolted, without a word, heading for the front door when we finally barged into
the bedroom. (After the third thud, the loudest yet, we’d hopped up as one and headed down
the hallway, waiting by the door, where a giant crash was followed by Ashley’s scream,
breaking glass.) Ash was down in a crouch, catching the blood flowing from her face.
One of my buddies eventually ran out after Tim but never found him. He must have
headed into the park, towards Samson or Chestnut, and hauled a cab. He wasn’t answering his
phone. “But he wasn’t even that drunk,” my one buddy said as we sat and stood and paced and
summarized still. “And knowing we’re all out here, he . . . he wouldn’t be so dumb to just hit her
and think we wouldn’t know . . .” “True,” someone else said. “He was way too sober, not
whacked at least, and way too smart a guy to act that way. I mean, if this goes on with them at
home it’s one thing . . . but here, in a friend’s bedroom . . . with of all us . . .” The other guys,
their wives and girlfriends seemed to agree with this—or at least pretended to—as if the
sounds from behind that door, the shattered full-length mirror, Ashley’s blood and lumps and
her husband escaping the place was all a conspiracy. So perplexed everyone was. We’d known
Tim for twenty-plus years. Student council guy. Mild mannered. Good golfer—never cheated.
An honest realtor who’d sold most of us our homes. Sure, we all had darkness in our closets,
but Tim was the last of our friends we thought capable of this.
Bridget had waited to speak until there was no other talking heads saving face or
inaccurately recapping events that had happened only a few minutes earlier. Ashley was in the
bathroom now; she had gotten up after saying she felt dizzy, nauseous, and two, maybe three,
of the girls had followed her. “It’s called an impulse behavior,” Bridget finally said to the eleven
or so of us left. “In people with impulse issues—this can’t be controlled the way it might with
8

Friendsgiving
the more common person. Why do you think these abusers hit and hit and hit again, even after
they’ve apologized over and over, been arrested, re-arrested in some cases . . .? Because the
problem is more powerful than the self-control! What is wrong with you guys!” My buddy
Volpe tried to talk, defend our remarks, attempts at semi-exonerating Tim, but Bridget shut him
up quickly. “He just left his wife here, you idiot. Does someone whose wife ‘fell’ while he was
putting her in bed walk out, leave her at his friend’s place . . . without any way of getting home
to her kids? He is embarrassed, his secret’s exposed—yous are all fucking idiots.” She made a
quick move to her phone and someone, I forget who, franticly asked what she was doing. “I’m
getting an Uber—taking her to the hospital,” Bridget said heading towards the bathroom. I
followed.
“Ashley, sweetie,” Bridget whispered in after cracking open the bathroom door. “Ash,
do you have a number for your babysitter? Is Tim’s little sister watching the girls?” Right then I
began thinking about the who-knows-how-many hours I’d be in an emergency room and not
my bed. I thought about Ashley mumbling and slurring and crying, trying to escape and slipping
on linoleum floor at Hahnemann or Jefferson or some other downtown hospital where North
Philly gun-shot victims are brought in on stretchers screaming in pain. Would the staff ask
questions? Should I stick to my story? Could one hesitant answer incriminate Tim? Would they
be obligated to get the police involved? I was even drunk enough to wonder if I could be
arrested for my lack of action, for letting them stay alone back there long after the noises had
gotten pretty fucking frightening: The Coward Law.
Very few people got in Bridget’s way when her anger, her tone, reached this level of
pissed; she was too pretty and too tough and made too much sense for anyone to even think
9

Friendsgiving
about questioning what she wanted. And I too went along—literally. With Ashley’s limp body
slouched between us in the back seat, I hadn’t asked one question till the Uber driver veered
onto the 676 ramp, away from where I thought our final destination was: the ER. “Aren’t we
going to Hahnemann or—?” “She’s fine,” Bridget said looking out her window, away from me,
“Advil and sleep is all this girl needs.”

***
When a somber Tim arrived at our door the next morning, after I’d woken to missed calls, texts
thanking us, telling us how drunk he was, embarrassed and ashamed he is, Bridget had already
told me she’d wanted no parts of this—it was my friend and my responsibility and I’d have to sit
and wait with Ash while she took Riley and Declan to soccer. “Text me after they leave,” she
said, “I do not want to see his face.”
I’ve always wondered what Bridget would have thought of that face of his, the leaningforward, heartfelt-feigning look, the pursed lips, he started his apology with. “If I did anything
inappropriate last night,” Tim began—it was an abashed look that I’d have believed, respected
at least, before this, if the apology was for something else, if I hadn’t now known what truly
lived inside this dude.
Ash was already out the door by then—she barely said a thing from the time she finally
came up from the basement till we saw Tim pull up out front—and she had marched down our
path, passing Tim with her face in her phone. She was in the car while her husband was giving
this here apology.

10

Friendsgiving
“I was pretty tuned up and a . . . Me and Ash, we . . . we’ve got some stuff we gotta work
on . . .”
It’s really something to truly see someone, know exactly who they are, for the first
time. All they’d done before that and will do after—none of it mattering now. How often does
someone do something so powerful, whether benign or malicious, that warrants that, that
unveils them till eternity? But it wasn’t just Tim who was forever altered from that day on.
When our crew got together again—Tim and Ash had apparently patched things up, were still
together, happy as ever according to Facebook—things just felt different, awkward between a
group of guys who’d known each other since fifth grade.
Jokes, humor, making light of the dark had always been our crew’s way of healing, of
putting the past away. We could be harsh, sure. When someone had a zit or a bashed-up
haircut, we’d make sure he knew that we knew . . . and then some. If your parents had a piece
of shit car or your dad had a habit of drunkenly screaming at referees during CYO games—no
ball busting was over the line. In our late-twenties my buddy Marty hopped a curb, took out a
fireplug, the tree he hit next the only reason he didn’t plow into the old lady’s living room. He
got a DUI. Lost his license, his girlfriend. Had to move back home with his parents. Wake up at 4
a.m. and take two buses then the subway to work. Suicide watch type stuff. So we helped.
Courtesy of our cop buddy Hartner we got hold of Marty’s mug shots, had tee-shirts made:
“Nobody Parties Like Marty” above his airbag-damaged face. We debuted them—all of us
donning them—for his surprise thirtieth birthday party.
But Friendsgiving was different.

11

Friendsgiving
None of us had even texted or talked about what happened. And if anyone had
searched for jokes, levity, and came up with some—they were likely jokes on themselves,
reminders of their complicity in the most unfunny thing they’d ever been a part of.
And these absent jokes, humor we couldn’t use to bury our latest issue, had no doubt
shown the first time we were all together again. It needed time, I guessed. An incident like that
needed time, subtle baby steps, healing, before things got normal again—that was what I
blamed for the uneasy and awkward feeling that loomed over a late-January birthday party at
one of those bounce house places that were all the rage when the kids were younger.
But the second time and third and so on—all the thirty-fifth birthdays and remaining
weddings that would come, the Friendsgiving tradition that continued for now—kept feeling,
well . . . awkward. I felt that everyone, me included, was less themselves, shared their opinions
less on any issue that might seem sensitive or turn heated. Less laughter. More business-like,
artificial. Better than being home with the kids but not exactly where they, we, wanted to be.
Turnout was always a little bit lower. People drank less and Ubered home early, acted as if
getting home to the babysitter was a bigger deal than it used to be. Tim’s beginning to bring his
new girl around a few years after the incident—that same girl smiling beside him on our savethe-date card—didn’t make things any better or worse really; we were used to stuff like that by
then—there’d been a few big divorce scandals, usually-younger dates taking the place of the
wives who’d cheated or been cheated on . . . more stuff that we got through with humor.
Then Friendsgivings ended all-together—“Just a year off” was how it was explained over
the group text. But that year became two and three . . . There were still the occasional
graduations and fortieth birthday parties, though sometimes me or Bridget would scroll across
12

Friendsgiving
a party that happened without us, our old friends in Facebook photos with their new friends:
their coworkers and suburban neighbors, parents they’d met from their kids’ schools or teams.
Mostly now it’s funerals or shopping, some sports stuff a few of the remaining “city
kids” play on together. A quick catching up then a “we’ll need to get together soon” that never
happens.
I knew how Bridget would respond if I brought up not seeing my buddies much
anymore. “Life’s crazy,” she might say. “People are busy.” And she was right—people were
busy. Other than Marty, a story for another day, all of us were married with kids—even
Noodles’ bachelor days were done; he too had a family, a nice new house. (Word was that he
didn’t use Tim as his realtor.) Our days of drinking in shore houses were now spent on the
boardwalk, in arcades, in lines for rides. “Life happens, bud.”
But there was more—more to it than age and responsibilities. I knew this. There was a
look now. I’d seen it every single time since that late-November night. Even the wives had this
look. A hell of a thing really: for old friends, guys with half a lifetime of stories together, to now
have just one overriding thought when looking into each other’s eyes. At least this was how I
saw it. I now looked dead into my buddies’ faces and saw us huddled outside a door, listening
as if we were twelve-year-olds trying to hear the moans of an older brother’s girlfriend. Ashley
was being haymakered in there and none of us moved. We just shared a look, a stair, and have
been doing so ever since.
I’d constantly get impulses to tell Bridget about this look, this unavoidable, unshakeable
look, this one thing that never changed when everything else continued to (Bridget’s where I
constantly verify and validate), but after a second or so I’d realize that this subject had always
13

Friendsgiving
been off limits, that re-reminding her of that night, of what did and didn’t happen, wasn’t
worth that hopeful surge Bridget had a way with providing at times.
But the day the save-the-date came, as I’m sitting in the bar, staring at the ball game,
looking back at that night, the infamous Friendsgiving, and all its destruction as closely as I had
in some time—looking back, I realized, decided then, that Bridget too was changed by what
happened that night, hadn’t unremembered anything any more or less than anyone else. And
not only was she disappointed with my lack of action, my disgusting comments, but I had the
next morning, after twelve hours to sleep off a half a case of beer and three or four shots of
Tequila, to process what had happened—I had the chance then to redeem myself. But I didn’t
knock Tim down our steps, stand over his pleading body and give him the treatment he gave his
wife. No. I did nothing—again.
The Sixers game was well over, yet I sat, had two more beers. I wanted no parts of
leaving the bar, facing Bridget again. There was no total redemption, no statute of limitation,
for being a pussy who didn’t protect a woman, make her abuser pay for what he did, and it took
a stupid save-the-date six years later, three beers and a few fistfuls of communal peanuts for an
idiot, me, to soak this all in, to see what my wife’s eyes were saying.
But I timed it perfectly and pulled up to the house just as the kids were being dropped
off from the hayride. I walked through the door to laughs coming from the kitchen and little
gifts—mini pumpkins, a stuffed animal shaped and colored like a candy corn—sitting on our
piano bench. Bridget was asking them questions. Then I was asking them questions. It seemed
that maybe the fight was finished, just another blip, another thing in a life that would keep on
handing out things. She even told Declan to put his iPad down when daddy was talking. Daddy.
14

Friendsgiving
And after she asked the kids what they wanted for dinner and they both yelled pizza, she
referred to me again: “And what does daddy want?” But when I looked in her eyes, “Pizza,” I
said. “Of course, pizza”—that’s when I knew: I knew deep down, and deep down is the only
place that counts, I knew that when our day was over and we’d done what we do, I’d be facing
a different type of fight.

15


