Exactly two days after her twelfth birthday, Shawna Deardorf’s exceedingly tall
father hung himself in the guest bathroom of the family’s two-story, five-bedroom house.
Because of his height, it was perplexing to the police how he managed to accomplish this
in such a small space. The conclusion was that he must’ve bent his legs or touched his
chest with his knees as he inhaled his final breath.
The day before this tragic event, Terrence Deardorf spoke to his daughter as if she
were an adult. “When you meet someone and fall in love, don’t let him go, no matter
what the circumstance.” They were wandering through their New England neighborhood
on a lazy August afternoon. The patriarch seemed content, happy even; he cherished the
time he spent with his only child, and Shawna felt comfortable asking him questions that
she wouldn’t dare ask her draconian mother.
“What if the person I love is mean to me?” she inquired.
“That’s a cue that you should stop loving him,” her father advised.
“What if the person has to go away for a long time?” she inquired.
“If you really love him, you’ll wait for him,” her father said.
“If someone can’t see, they’re blind,” Shawna stated. “If someone can’t hear,
they’re deaf. What’s the word when someone can’t smell?” she inquired.


Her father fell silent.
When Shawna learned of the suicide, she felt as if a missile had crashed into her
heart. Her mother Claire, red-haired, fair-skinned and freckled like Shawna, wasn’t quite
as distraught as her daughter. “Your father was very troubled,” she said. “A troubled
man. He had problems you didn’t know about, and I’m not referring to his weak chin.”
“Do you mean his moods?”
“That was part of it. Those gray periods grabbed him by the throat like the Boston
Strangler on a rampage. I had a feeling it would end this way, though not in the guest
bathroom.”
“Where did you think it would end?” Shawna asked.
“The master bedroom,” she replied matter-of-factly. “He loved that room with all
those framed diplomas and art deco furniture. There was nothing he enjoyed more than
lounging in bed with a good book and a bottle of Courvoisier. If he’d been able to, he
would have stayed in that room all day. Instead, he died down the hall at dusk.”
The afternoon of the funeral was an uncommonly cool and windy one for late
summer. Mourners held onto scarves, sweaters and jackets with fear that their garments
would fly away in a strong gust. Shawna recognized everyone in attendance except a
slender woman in a black felt fedora. “Who’s that lady in the man’s hat?” Shawna
whispered to her mother.
“I haven’t the foggiest,” Claire responded curtly. Shawna didn’t believe her.
There was something hypnotic about this raven-haired stranger. Shawna was
dying to ask her how she knew her father and why she was wearing that hat, but when the
fedora flew off her head, she ran to retrieve it and then summarily disappeared.

3

Shawna wouldn’t see the mystery lady again for a decade.
The day after the funeral, Claire began sorting through her late husband’s
clothing. “He’s only been dead a few days and you’re cleaning out his closet?” Shawna
asked, aghast. “How can you be so cruel?”
“Charities need clothing,” Claire explained, “and your father had excellent taste.
He owned dozens of designer suits.”
“I can’t wait to see a homeless man in one of them,” Shawna remarked with
sarcasm.
“He’ll be the toast of Skid Row,” Claire offered.
The years passed and Shawna’s life continued, but nothing was as joyful as it
would’ve been if her father had been there to share it. On several occasions, Shawna
thought she spotted the mysterious stranger in the fedora, but she was always mistaken.
She continued to wonder what her father felt for this woman in the felt hat.
When Shawna was a sophomore in college, she met a junior named Jonathan
Lamp and fell instantly in love. Like her father, he was extremely tall and lanky, but
unlike her father, Jonathan Lamp had a strong chin and a zest for living. Shawna fell for
his substantial intellect, dedication to learning and insatiable libido. With psychology his
major, Jonathan was constantly analyzing situations, making judgments and drawing
conclusions. With neuroscience Shawna’s major, she looked at life from a scientific point
of view. She relished the fact that she could understand the intensity of her feelings, that
her profound bliss was a result of the dopamine bursting from her nucleus accumbens.
After four months of uninterrupted euphoria, an unwelcome interruption surfaced
like a malignant lump. Jonathan suddenly seemed distant, preoccupied. A man with

4

a secret. In the middle of a mediocre Mexican dinner at Pappasito’s Cantina (the chicken
was rubbery and the chimichangas too cheesy), Jonathan worked up the courage to admit
that a political science major named Tallulah Light had entered the picture. “She’s Light
and I’m Lamp,” he explained. “It’s destiny.”
“Destiny?” Shawna shouted to the alarm of several diners sitting nearby. “You
think a surname coincidence can be the basis of a relationship?”
“Please keep your voice down.”
“I’ll change my name to Bulb! Or Shade! Shawna Shade has a good ring to it,
don’t you think? Please Jonathan, reconsider this. We love each other.”
“Loved,” he said. “Past tense. I’m sure you’ll meet someone else. You’re an
awesome girl with all that red hair.” Her thick mane was occasionally unmanageable, and
Shawna wondered if that was the real reason for the breakup: hair upheaval. “What kind
of hair does this Light girl have?”
“Dark,” he said. “Shoulder length. It’s also soft and silky like a dog’s coat after a
bath.”
“I love a dog’s coat after a bath,” Shawna mumbled.
The words of her deceased father echoed in Shawna’s head. When you meet
someone and fall in love, don’t let him go, no matter what the circumstance. “I can’t let
you go,” Shawna shrieked. From her nervous system, a signal had been sent to her
organs, causing the muscles in her small intestine to contract. This gave her the sensation
of a knot in the pit of her stomach.
“Do you love me or the idea of me?” Jonathan asked. “I think you love the idea of
me.”

5

“No,” Shawna assured him. “I love the person, not the idea. If it were my idea,
you’d be two inches shorter and less analytical.”
“Chin up,” he said. With that, he asked Pappasito for the check.
Spending the next two days sobbing, sniveling and sipping various concoctions
made with cranberry juice, ice cream and Courvoisier, Shawna felt like her mind and
body were disintegrating. She was certain she’d lost her sense of smell. She called her
mother for support.
“I would tell you there are plenty of fish in the sea,” Claire said. “But there are
very few finned creatures you can count on to swim home to you every night.”
“So you think I should try to win him back?”
“I don’t give advice on the subject. After all, my husband chose death over me.”
On the third day of her abandonment, Shawna seriously considered killing
Tallulah Light in cold blood, but after exploring the idea scientifically, she doubted she
could pull it off without being caught. Still, she was obsessed with getting Jonathan Lamp
back into her life.
It was easy enough to locate the homewrecker; she was one of the most active
students in the political science department. Shawna studied Tallulah Light from afar her sea green eyes, tomato red lips, bronzed olive skin, sable brown hair that bounced like
quivering jello. And she always dressed in blue - baby blue, cobalt blue, cornflower,
royal, cerulean, steel, teal, midnight, Tiffany, turquoise, Yale.
Like a warrior heading into battle, Shawna marched to a nearby salon called
Hair & Now. The stylish male stylist cut and colored her hair so that it matched
Tallulah’s to a tee. Then she picked up a tomato red lipstick. Then she purchased a pair of

6

contact lenses that changed her eye color from light brown to shamrock green. After that,
she headed to a tanning salon and bought ten sessions because compared to Tallulah,
Shawna was so pale she appeared to lack pigment. She finished the day by shopping for
a new wardrobe, all shades of blue.
Her startling new appearance stunned her friends and fellow students. All agreed
Shawna had a more adult, sophisticated demeanor. Her striking new mien attracted the
young men on campus, and several asked her out. She refused every single one of them
except the exceedingly hot and dimpled Kevin Hecht.
She decided the right time to reveal herself to Jonathan was immediately after his
Friday morning class in schizoaffective disorders. In her crisp cobalt blue outfit, she
leaned against the beige wall in the hallway. When the class ended, the students dispersed
and Jonathan quickly trotted down the hallway without noticing his ex. She scurried to
catch up to him. “Jonathan,” she called out with enthusiasm.
“Hey Tallulah,” he responded.
“It’s Shawna.”
Jonathan stopped trotting. Dumbfounded, he stared at Shawna as if she were an
apparition. “Wow,” he mumbled. “You look so different. Your clothes, your hair.”
“Do you like the new me?”
“Uh, yeah,” he said. “Very much.”
“Thanks,” she responded. Then she strolled away with confidence, feeling his
eyes still on her as if they were glued.
It took Jonathan exactly 28 minutes to call and ask her out. Shawna had the
distinct sensation Tallulah Light’s glow had dimmed to virtual darkness.

7

Over a tasty vegetarian lasagna at a place called Rebecca Romaine, Shawna
and Jonathan fell in love all over again. They began to study together, read under the
campus trees, and make Freudian love in her dorm room. (He convinced her, as Freud
believed, that the sexual drive was the primary motivational force of the homosapien.)
Once again, the serotonin was flowing as was the oxytocin, cascades of it, produced from
the paraventricular nucleus of Shawna’s hypothalamus and released by her posterior
pituitary, filling her with jubilance and joy.
One evening at a trendy seafood restaurant called Fish Frolic, Shawna and
Jonathan were enjoying classic Maryland crab cakes and discussing developmental
psychology when Shawna froze, her fork in midair. In walked the woman in the black
fedora. She was seated at a table for two even though she was alone.
“What’s wrong?” Jonathan asked.
“The woman who just walked in,” Shawna whispered nervously, “I know her.”
“The one in the hat?”
“Right. At least I think it’s her.”
“Do you want to say hello?”
“I have to,” Shawna said as she stood up.
The mysterious woman removed the hat from her head, allowing her wavy black
hair to fall past her shoulders. It looked as soft and silky as a dog’s coat after a bath.
With great trepidation, Shawna clumsily weaved her way through a collision
course of tables, chairs, patrons heading to the loo and servers carrying enormous platters
of food. “Excuse me,” she politely said when she reached her destination, “I hate to be a
bother, but I think I recognize you.”

8

“Oh?”
“About ten years ago, did you attend the funeral of Terrence Deardorf? He was
my father.”
The woman gazed into Shawna’s searching eyes. “Mon Dieu,” she said. “Take a
seat.”
Eagerly, Shawna sat down across from the femme fatale. “So it was you.”
“Indeed. My name is Althea. Althea Iris Fawning.”
“What a pretty name,” Shawna said, extending her hand. “I’m Shawna Rochelle
Deardorf.”
“Have you been looking for me all these years, Shawna Rochelle?”
“In a bizarre way I have, yes.”
“My goodness,” Althea remarked. “Please explain.”
“Well,” Shawna began, “I don’t think my parents loved each other very much,
and I was convinced my father was involved with someone else. I always imagined
clandestine liaisons in secluded cabins and lingering rendezvous in romantic hideaways.
Then when I saw you at the funeral, I couldn’t help wondering, frankly, if you were the
love of my father’s life.”
“The love of his life,” Althea repeated. She took a long, deep breath. “No, I
wasn’t the love of your tall, tormented father’s life.”
Shawna nodded with disappointment. “Then how did you know him?”
“After my glory days of sailing the Caspian Sea, traversing the Sahara Desert,
studying mime in Madrid and assimilating myself into Toyko’s metropolis, I decided to

9

settle down. So I settled and became a clinical psychologist,” Althea explained. “Your
father was in session with me for several years.”
“Oh. That makes sense.”
“But there was another person, someone your father loved very deeply.”
“There was?” Shawna asked excitedly, inching her way to the edge of her chair.
“Who was she? Do you remember her name?”
Althea reached over and gently touched Shawna’s hand that was settled on the
table, her fingers curled into a fist. When Althea’s hand met Shawna’s, the fist uncurled
as if blooming into a rose, and Shawna felt a warm, pleasurable rush. “All I can recall
about your papa’s lover is that he was a Hungarian who worked with oceanic animals and
donated generously to the destitute.”
“He?” Shawna asked, stunned.
“He,” Althea replied. “A Hungarian humanitarian who worked underwater and
died, sadly, from loss of blood after a shark attack off the coast of Nova Scotia.”
“Shark attack?” she inquired. “Nova Scotia?”
“A ghastly way to go, n’est-ce pas? After that traumatic occurrence, your daddy
didn’t want to live. I, of course, beseeched him, implored him to pursue an exciting,
enthralling life - while avoiding coastal activities. Unfortunately I failed. And not just
with your father. When the majority of my clients killed themselves, I gave up clinical
psychology for sculpture.”
Shawna was at a loss for words. After a few awkward moments, she asked, “So
you’re a sculptress now?”

10

Before Althea had a chance to respond, a fresh-faced waitress in taupe appeared at
the table with a sweet smile and two menus. “My name is Fedora and I’ll be your server
this evening.”
“Fedora?” Shawna asked with astonishment.
“Fedora Twine, and I’d like to tell you about tonight’s specials, may I?”
“Proceed, s’il vous plait.” Althea said, admiring Fedora’s aquiline nose and
uncommonly long eyelashes.
“First we have a slow baked Faroe Island salmon,” she announced. “The Faroes
are an archipelago of 18 small volcanic islands between Iceland and Norway in the North
Atlantic Ocean. Because of its picturesque cliffs and valleys, it’s a destination for birdwatchers and nature lovers. Tourist season is July and August, but if you want to avoid
the crowds, I’d suggest visiting in late May or early June. We also have an Ecuadorian
cazuela de mariscos, a crustacean stew made with tomatoes, peppers, cumin, sage leaf
and other enticing spices to satisfy the palate. Ecuador, of course, straddles the equator on
the west coast of South America. When visiting, you’ll obviously want to explore the
fierce and fabulous Amazon jungle, but please don’t forget the wildlife-rich Galapagos
Islands, all right?”
“OK,” Shawna said - only because the waitress-cum-travel agent was looking
directly into her shamrock green eyes.
“And finally, we offer a Nova Scotia deep-water shark steak. Almost completely
surrounded by water, the province of Nova Scotia is a truly remarka…”
“We know about Nova Scotia,” Shawna interrupted. “A Nova Scotia shark killed
the love of my father’s life.”

11

Fedora was taken aback. “I’m sure it’s not the same one,” she quietly remarked.
Althea gazed at her young server. “You are an enchanting creature of the sea,” she
told her.
“What a fascinating thing to say,” Fedora replied. “I always believed we as a
species originated from the depths of the earth’s oceans.”
“I should return to where I originated,” Shawna declared. “A table in the rear of
the restaurant. I just felt compelled to say hello.”
“Take my card,” Althea suggested, reaching into her large, faux leather tote.
“You may have questions later, beaucoup de questions.”
“Thank you,” Shawna said, clutching the card.
“The man might have been Black,” Althea suddenly recalled. “Or White. A color
for a surname. Perhaps Monsieur Green. Or Monsieur Indigo.”
“Monsieur Indigo?” Shawna muttered.
“Possibly. By the way, how did you recognize me? Les yeux? Most people
remember my mesmerizing violet eyes.”
“Actually it was the fedora.”
“Ah, le chapeau. Believe it or not, this very fedora sitting sur la table was a gift
from your father. I admired it on his head, and he insisted I have it.”
“This was Daddy’s fedora?”
“Mais oui. Do you know how much I’d like you to have it?”
“Very much?”
“Very much indeed.”
“Oh thank you, Althea,” Shawna gushed, reaching for the hat.

12

“But I can’t part with it, I’m sorry. Now scurry back to where you belong, mon
ange.”
Rattled, Shawna stood up, quizzically glanced at Fedora, then ambled back to
Jonathan.
“Was she who you thought she was?” Jonathan asked.
“She was the woman I recognized, but she wasn’t the woman I thought she was,”
Shawna said softly. “Maybe I’m not the woman I thought I was,” she added even more
softly and much more mysteriously. Sometime between her crab cake entrée and pecancrusted key lime pie dessert, Shawna decided to let her hair grow back to its natural
russet color, lose the green tinted contact lenses, and return to her original wardrobe that
had little to do with blue. Then she swiped her palm across her mouth, permanently
erasing the tomato red from her lips.
Jonathan held Shawna’s arm as they walked eleven blocks to the car under a
luminous full moon. Neither spoke very much until Jonathan stopped in his tracks,
reached into his jacket pocket and took out a small jewelry box. He presented it to
Shawna who immediately opened it to find a one-carat diamond engagement ring.
“Will you be my bride?” Jonathan asked as he bent down on one knee. Shawna could
hardly believe what she was witnessing.
“Please stand up,” she said. “And tuck your shirt in.” Her wannabe groom
followed instructions. “This is a psychogenic shock,” Shawna said. “My blood vessels
might be dilating and it’s possible I’ll pass out.”
“I had a feeling you’d be surprised.”

13

“I’m beyond surprised,” she admitted. “This is so out of the blue that it’s not even
a color.”
“I’ve been thinking a lot about settling down, and I don’t want to do it with
anyone except you.”
“Settling down isn’t always a great idea,” Shawna said, recalling what occurred
when Althea settled down. “Unexpected things can happen.”
“That’s expected,” Jonathan said.
“Well, I’d love to give you an answer right now, but I can’t.”
“Why not?”
“Parce que je regrette de vous informer que je might be more interested in les
femmes than I am in les hommes.”
“Could you translate please?” Jonathan asked.
“Because I’m sorry to inform you that I might be more interested in women than I
am in men.”
Jonathan looked slightly stupefied. “Uh…did I hear that right?”
Shawna nodded, smiling with sincerity and a touch of sympathy.
Before climbing into bed that night, Shawna carefully placed the business card
of Althea Fawning on her night table, detecting a subtle floral scent coming from the
card. She was thrilled that her sense of smell had returned.
As she tried to fall asleep, she focused on the failed psychologist who peppered
her speech with odd phrases in French. Shawna’s body, head to toe, was warmed by the
woman’s image as if a pilot light had been turned on deep inside her.

14

The beguiling, bewitching Althea, with her innumerable eccentricities, intrigued
Shawna like no one ever had, not even the tall, intellectual Jonathan Lamp. She felt like
she’d encountered someone from the tribe she’d been born into, and the experience
brought her a sense of belonging. At the same time, Althea seemed remarkably bold and
cultivated, entirely capable of exploring exhilarating new horizons with Shawna at her
side.
The hypothalamic region of Shawna’s brain was fully activated. She felt electric.
Alive. Pulse racing, heart grinding with desire. Still, she managed to drift off to an
exceptionally pleasurable sleep, dreaming of clandestine liaisons in secluded cabins and
lingering rendezvous in romantic hideaways.

* * *


