The  world  stopped  spinning  just  before  lunch  on  a  Wednesday  at  11:09  in  the  
morning.    I  saw  it  coming,  the  hints,  the  signs,  all  that—but  didn’t  do  a  damn  thing  about  it.    
If  I  hadn’t  been  such  a  dumb  ass  I  might  have  been  able  to  capitalize  on  the  catastrophe.    
But  that  sort  of  thinking  has  never  been  me.      

We  talked  about  it  the  week  before  in  Ms.  Hunter’s  AP  Physics  class,  where  I  sat  next  

Jenny  Mitchel.    My  desk  was  the  only  one  bolted  to  the  floor.    I  guess  some  hyperactive  kid  
sat  there  back  when  that  sort  of  thing  was  legal-­‐ish.    I’ll  tell  you  what  though—there  was  no  
one  I  would  rather  be  bolted  down  next  to  than  Jenny.      
  

According  to  Ms.  Hunter,  if  the  spinning  stopped  slowly  the  oceans  would  move  to  

the  poles  and  all  land  would  merge  into  one  gargantuan  super  continent.    If  it  stopped  
suddenly  everything  not  well  rooted  into  the  Earth  would  be  smashed  together  and  thrown  
off  the  planet  at  over  one  thousand  miles  per  hour.  
That’s  how  I  felt  back  in  August  when  I  saw  Jenny  get  out  of  her  parents’  mini  van  
after  her  long  summer  vacation.    The  California  sun  had  lightened  her  dark  brown  hair  just  
right  so  that  it  set  off  the  silky  smooth  shine  of  her  tanned  skin.    All  signs  of  baby  fat  had  
vanished  as  well.    I  was  entranced  in  the  lines  of  her  exposed  midriff—how  they  twisted  
and  turned  as  she  walked  down  the  driveway  to  check  the  mailbox,  damn.    All  that  was  
packed  into  a  pair  of  cut-­‐off  jean  shorts  and  a  bikini  top  that  must  have  been  a  size  or  two  
larger  than  the  one  I  saw  her  in  at  the  end  of  school  swim  party  back  in  May.    There  wasn’t  
a  whole  lot  my  sixteen  year-­‐old  ass  could  have  done  with  that  kind  of  stimulation,  except  
plant  my  feet  and  take  that  hormonal  rush  at  one  thousand  miles  per  hour—oh  yeah.      
  Jenny  and  I  had  been  in  school  together  since  the  second  grade.    In  fourth  grade  she  
stapled  my  hand  to  the  class  bulletin  board  as  an  act  of  revenge  against  me  for  putting  glue  

  A  Sudden  Stop/   2  
and  shaping  beads  in  her  hair  the  day  before.    At  that  moment  I  had  never  hated  anyone  
more.    When  the  small  razor  sharp  point  of  the  staples  past  through  the  soft  webbing  of  
skin  between  my  thumb  and  index  finger  the  anger  and  pain  concocted  a  sensation  inside  
me  that  felt  like  falling  and  having  my  hair  set  on  fire.    My  feeble  mind  convinced  itself  that  
any  woman  who  can  make  you  feel  like  that  is  worth  getting  to  know.    Our  relationship  
grew  considerably  from  there.    The  fact  that  our  bros  were  pretty  tight  helped  too.    They  
played  on  our  high  school’s  football  team.    Neither  of  them  was  particularly  good,  but  it  
meant  that  I  got  to  hang  out  with,  or  at  least  sit  by,  Jenny  at  all  the  games.  
A  week  before  the  end  I  asked  Jenny  why  she  wasn’t  a  cheerleader.    Almost  every  
night  growing  up  the  headlights  from  her  mother’s  mini-­‐van  backing  into  their  driveway  
after  picking  Jenny  up  from  gymnastics  ran  across  the  back  wall  of  my  family’s  living  room.    
Sometimes  the  lights  were  off  as  soon  as  the  car  stopped  and  I  heard  the  doors  close  and  
the  garage  door  shut.    Sometimes  they  were  on  a  bit  longer.    One  night  the  lights  were  on  
for  almost  an  hour.    I  just  sat  with  my  back  sunk  into  the  couch  staring  into  the  lights.    That  
was  the  last  time  they  ever  crossed  liked  that  into  our  living  room.          
“Those  girls’  moves  are  all  show  and  no  substance,”  she  told  me.    “I  got  substance.    
Shit,  if  I’m  going  to  get  a  scholarship  to  college  it’s  not  going  to  be  as  a  spazed  out,  sexed  up  
cheer  dork  with  spanks  jammed  up  my  ass  thank  you.”    She  took  a  big  bite  of  her  churro  
and  smiled—bits  of  it  stuck  in  her  teeth  and  packed  her  cheeks.    We  both  looked  down  at  
our  brothers  on  the  sidelines.  
“You  know  how  to  get  sexed  up?”  I  said.      “That’s  Amanda  Cunningham’s  M.O.”    Every  
other  day  last  semester  that  chick  would  get  called  out  of  our  Honors  Lit  class  for  wearing  

  A  Sudden  Stop/   3  
shorts  that  let  her  ass  cheeks  show  or  for  revealing  clothes  that  showed  her  bra—
sometimes  she  didn’t  even  wear  a  bra.    I  missed  that  class.    
“Give  her  a  break,”  Jenny  said  shrugging  her  shoulders.    “She’s  just  looking  for  
validation.”     
“What?”      
“Her  dad’s  dead  and  her  mom  works  six  nights  a  week  as  a  cocktail  waitress  at  the  
strip  club  her  sister  works  at.    It’s  not  like  she  knows  a  whole  lot  else.”  
“Wow,  Lexi  Cunningham  is  a  stripper  now  and  her  mom  works  with  her.    Holy  shit.”  
“Don’t  be  a  dick.”    Jenny  bumped  my  thigh  with  her  hip.    “Go  Tony,”  Jenny  screamed  
as  my  brother  was  called  in  to  try  and  block  a  field  goal.    She  didn’t  care  that  cinnamon  and  
sugar  was  smeared  all  around  her  mouth  and  her  hair  was  a  mess  or  that  she  had  on  her  
brother’s  old  Green  Day  t-­‐shirt  tied  in  the  back  as  she  climbed  right  up  on  the  front  rails  of  
the  bleachers  in  front  of  a  packed  stadium—yelling  and  screaming.    Right  before  the  play  
went  off  Jenny  reached  down  and  grabbed  my  hand.    The  sugar  on  her  fingers  felt  gritty  as  
they  interlocked  with  mine.    
All  of  a  sudden  I  felt  everything  lurch  forward  and  drop.    I  must  have  pulled  Jenny  
down  as  I  fell.    I  just  remember  helping  her  up,  still  holding  her  hand.    She  gave  me  this  
look.    Her  dark  green  eyes  ate  me  up  like  a  fat  kid  taking  on  a  corn  dog  after  a  twenty-­‐four  
hour  fast.    The  back  of  my  head  tingled  like  I  had  slept  on  it  funny  and  my  heart  felt  like  it  
was  broadcasting  out  of  my  ears.    Then  I  knew.    I  knew  what  all  those  crappy  poems  in  
English  class  and  Hallmark  movies  were  talking  about,  what  dating  sites  had  made  millions  
on  supposedly  helping  people  find,  and  what  just  about  every  one  of  my  sixteen-­‐year  old  
peers  and  I  laughed  at.    I  knew  I  was  in  love.    And  I  didn’t  care  that  she  was  still  a  bit  of  a  

  A  Sudden  Stop/   4  
tomboy  and  that  all  the  guys  I  had  seen  or  heard  about  her  dating  were  older  and  nothing  
like  me.    It  didn’t  matter.    I  was  holding  hands  with  the  coolest  hottest  girl  I  could  have  ever  
imagined.      
“Are  you  okay?”    Jenny  asked.      
  “Yeah,  are  you  okay?”  
“Sure.”    Jenny  let  go  of  my  hand  slowly.  “What  was  that?”  
“You  felt  that  too?”  I  asked.  
“Uh,  yeah.    I  think  everyone  did.”    Jenny’s  eyes  looked  back  across  the  bleachers.  
“Wow.”    People  were  looking  around  and  reassuring  one  another.    Food  and  drinks  
had  spilled  in  the  row  in  front  of  us.    I  looked  out  over  the  field.    Players  on  each  side  were  
looking  around  shrugging  their  shoulders  and  pointing  in  all  directions.    After  a  couple  of  
minutes  an  announcement  from  the  booth  came  over  the  stadium  PA  giving  the  okay  to  
keep  playing.    
“Go  Broncos!”    Jenny  cheered  and  clapped.      
I  slid  close  beside  her.    Jenny  kept  her  eyes  on  the  game  but  smiled  with  the  corner  
of  her  mouth.    The  ball  was  snapped  and  sure  enough  the  offensive  guard  covering  my  bro  
clobbered  his  dumbass.    
“Hey,”  Jenny  said.    “Are  you  going  to  homecoming  next  week?”  
Of  course  I  was,  I  went  to  every  game  just  like  her.    “Probably,”  I  said.  
“What  about  the  dance?”  
“I  don’t  know.    Ricky  and  I  might  swing  by  with  some  of  the  guys.”    Ricky  Barboca  
was  my  best  friend.    He  usually  went  to  the  games  but  that  night  he  was  busy  trying  to  get  
his  dad’s  1982  Stingray  to  run.        

  A  Sudden  Stop/   5  
“Oh.”    Jenny  nodded.    “Okay.”  
#####  
The  next  day  Ricky  and  I  stood  in  his  hallway  bathroom  watching  with  amazement  
as  the  water  in  the  toilet  spun  around  for  over  five  minutes.    It  swished  and  swished,  
almost  splashing  out  of  the  bowl  entirely  at  one  point.    We  didn’t  just  watch  the  toilet,  we  
turned  on  the  sink  and  even  the  bathtub  had  a  similar  thing  going  on  with  it.    It  was  pretty  
gnarly  until  we  remembered  what  Ms.  Hunter  told  us.    
“Hey,”  Ricky  said.    “You  thinkin’  what  I’m  thinkin’?”  There  was  a  brief  pause.  
We  stared  down  into  the  porcelain  abyss,  “END  OF  THE  WORLD!”  we  said  in  unison.  
“Damn,  if  the  world  ended  right  now  would  you  have  any  regrets?”  
“Mmmmm,  no,”  I  said.    
“None?”  
“Not  really.”    Maybe  it  was  the  way  I  carelessly  shrugged  my  shoulders,  or  the  grin  I  
couldn’t  shake  to  save  my  life,  but  Ricky  was  on  to  me.  
“What’s  with  you?”    Ricky  took  a  step  back  and  leaned  his  head  forward—like  he  
was  some  sort  of  head  doctor  examining  me.    “You’ve  been  awfully  chipper  today.    Like  
nothin’  fazes  you  man.”  
“What  are  you  talking  about?”    
“Dude,  you  came  over  this  mornin’  and  asked  my  parents  how  they  were  doin’  and  
then  talked  to  them  for  like  fifteen  minutes.    Who  does  that?”  
“I  was  just  being  nice.”    I  shrugged  again.  

  A  Sudden  Stop/   6  
“Plus,  all  this  past  week  you’ve  been  talkin’  about  the  world  ending  and  shit.    Non-­‐
stop,  blah  blah  blah.    But  now’s  the  first  time  you’ve  mentioned  it  and  we’ve  been  hangin’  
out  since  last  night.”  
“I  guess  you’re  right.”    He  was.      
“So  what?    You’ve  come  to  terms  with  the  end  and  realize  it  is  just  another  fad,  like  
Y2K  or  whatever”  
“What  do  you  know  about  Y2k,  you  were  like  four?”    We  were  actually  three  and  all  I  
remember  is  sitting  in  a  grocery  cart  overloaded  with  bottled  water  and  Top  Ramen  with  
my  dad’s  portable  radio  blaring  in  the  background.  
“I  know  things.”  
“Like  what?”  
“Like,  I  know  I  would  regret  not  getting’  laid  one  more  time  before  I  bite  the  big  
one.”    I  couldn’t  prove  it,  but  I  was  pretty  sure  Ricky  had  never  actually  been  laid.    
“Whatever,”  I  said,  rolling  my  eyes.  
“I  would  regret  not  going  all  the  way  with  Jenny  Mitchel  back  in  the  day.”  
“What,”  I  lunged  forward  and  got  in  Ricky’s  face  backing  him  against  the  wall.  
“Holy  shit  man,  what  the  hell?”  
“When  did  you  get  with  Jenny?”    Ricky  may  have  been  startled  by  my  sudden  leap  of  
aggression,  but  I  was  completely  shocked.    It  just  came  out.      
“Never,  we  kissed  back  on  our  eighth  grade  trip  remember?    You  were  the  look  out.”  
“Oh  yeah.”    I  backed  off  of  Ricky  and  patted  his  chest.    “How  the  hell  could  you  have  
got  with  her  on  the  bus?”  

  A  Sudden  Stop/   7  
“I  don’t  know.    Shit,  I  was  just  sayin’.    Come  on  you  live  right  across  from  her.    She  
got  retarded  hot  over  the  summer.”  
I  squinted  my  eyes  trying  to  glare  at  Ricky.      
“What’s  wrong  with  your  face?”    Ricky  backed  up  into  the  hallway.    “Oh  shit.    I  get  it.    
You  like  her.”  
“No.”  
“Ya,  that’s  it.    You  like  her.  “    Ricky  was  shaking  his  finger  at  me.    “Can’t  say  I  blame  
you.”  
“Whatever.”    I  gave  Ricky  one  final  shrug.      
“She’s  pretty  cool  man.  “    He  put  his  arm  around  my  shoulder  as  we  started  walking  
back  towards  the  garage.      
“Ya,  she  is.”    I  nodded,  too  embarrassed  to  look  at  Ricky.      
“So,  are  you  going  to  ask  her  out  or  what  bro?”  
Before  going  into  the  garage  we  both  grabbed  a  beer  from  Ricky’s  dad’s  mini  fridge  
in  the  laundry  room.    His  old  man  never  kept  track  of  the  Milwaukee’s  Best.    It  was  gross,  
thick  and  bitter,  but  did  the  trick  and  made  us  feel  like  real  men  working  on  a  car.  
“I  don’t  know.”    I  popped  the  top  of  my  brew.      
“I  heard  she  broke  up  with  Savage  over  the  summer  and  has  been  single  since.”      
Jeff  Savage  was  a  senior.    Jenny  had  been  dating  him  all  last  spring.    He  was  the  head  
of  the  yearbook  committee  and  played  club  soccer.    She  introduced  me  to  him  at  one  of  the  
football  games.    He  shook  my  hand,  made  some  quips  about  the  school  band,  but  for  the  
most  part  he  kept  to  himself—tucked  up  in  his  bleacher  seat  all  legs  and  lank  hunched  over  
texting.    He  wore  designer  glasses  with  thick  black  frames.    My  dad  loved  to  listen  to  old  

  A  Sudden  Stop/   8  
country  and  left  the  record  sleeves  around  the  garage.    I  saw  one  with  this  dude  Buddy  
Holly.    When  I  saw  savage  for  the  first  time  I  could  have  sworn  it  was  Buddy  reincarnate  if  
he  played  in  Nirvana  but  liked  Radio  Head.    Around  school  Savage  walked  with  his  head  up,  
always  socializing  with  different  clicks.    He  liked  to  play  his  guitar  during  lunch  hour  on  the  
campus  courtyard.    I  think  he  only  had  like  two  pairs  of  worn  out  jeans,  which  he  
complimented  with  t-­‐shirts  with  slogans  on  them  that  read  like  bumper  stickers.    It  was  
hard  to  dislike  him,  but  I  still  thought  he  was  an  ass.            
“I  never  got  what  she  saw  in  that  guy.”  
“Ya,  he’s  pretty  strange.    He’s  probably  got  a  huge  crank.“    
“What  the  hell?”    I  threw  the  old  FRAM  air  filter  we  had  pulled  earlier  that  morning  
at  Ricky.  
Ricky  laughed  and  tossed  the  filter  to  the  side.    He  reached  for  his  beer.    “You  should  
ask  her  to  homecoming.”    Ricky  took  a  short  sip  and  wiped  his  face  with  the  sleeve  of  his  
shirt.    “That’s  what  I’d  do  anyway.”  
“Hmm,”  I  muttered.    I  stared  out  of  the  garage,  past  the  driveway  thinking  about  
what  Jenny  had  said  to  me  the  night  before.  
“What?”    Ricky  said,  pretending  to  look  for  something  in  the  direction  I  was  staring.  
“She  asked  me  last  night.”  
“Asked  you  what?    To  homecoming?”  
“Not  exactly.    She  just  asked  if  I  was  going.”  
“You  said  yes  right?”    Ricky  leaned  on  the  car  towards  me  nodding  his  head.      
“I  said  we  might  swing  by.”          

  A  Sudden  Stop/   9  
“Dumb  ass,  she  was  totally  asking  you  to  go  with  her.”    He  placed  his  beer  down  and  
put  his  hands  out  towards  me  as  he  explained.    “She’s  not  going  to  straight  up  ask  you,  but  
she  totally  put  it  out  there.    Oh  my  god,  dude.”  
“Shut  up,  I  was  playing  it  cool.”    My  heart  started  to  play  in  my  ears  again  and  my  
palms  started  to  sweat.    As  my  stomach  spun  around  inside  me  I  couldn’t  help  but  believe  
Ricky  was  totally  right.      
“You’re  so  cool,  you  can  probably  forget  it  now.    She  thinks  you  rejected  her.”  
“Bullshit,  I’ll  just  ask  her  on  Monday  to  go.”    
#####  
Monday  came  and  went.    Jenny  wasn’t  at  school.    Ricky  spent  a  good  part  of  the  day  
asking  the  couple  of  girls  he  knew  if  they  were  going  to  homecoming.    They  were  nice  
about,  especially  the  dark  haired  semi-­‐cute  freshman  from  his  Ceramics  class  who  told  him,  
“I  have  to  go  antiquing  with  my  grandmother.”    
“See,  I  feel  rejected,”  Ricky  said  in  the  parking  lot  of  the  school.    “I’m  not  even  
interested  in  her  big  ass,  but  I  feel  pissed  that  she  made  some  excuse.”    He  shuffled  around  
uncomfortably  as  he  spoke.    “Get  what  I’m  sayin’.”  
“Ya,  I  get  it.”    I  fumbled  with  my  keys.    “I  screwed  it  up.”  
“I  wonder  were  she  was  today?    You  must  have  really  upset  her.”    Ricky  shoved  my  
arm  and  swayed  back  and  forth  on  the  sides  of  his  feet.        
“Shut  up.”  It  seemed  like  we  were  ever  so  slightly  being  pushed  around  by  an  
invisible  wind.    
That  night  I  stayed  up  late  and  camped  out  in  the  living  room.    I  kept  looking  out  the  
window  for  some  sign  of  Jenny.    The  later  it  got  the  weirder  I  thought  it  would  be  to  walk  

  A  Sudden  Stop/   10  
over  and  knock  on  her  door.    Then  it  seemed  too  late  to  text  her  without  coming  off  as  a  
complete  chump.      
Around  ten-­‐forty  I  tried  to  lie  down  in  my  bed.    What  kept  me  up  more  than  
thoughts  of  Jenny  was  the  way  my  bed  felt.    It  felt  off,  like  facing  the  wrong  direction  off.    I  
started  to  take  in  the  rest  of  my  room—it  all  felt  a  little  out  of  whack  so  I  went  back  into  the  
living  room  and  sat  on  the  couch.    I  started  to  doze  off  when  a  pair  of  lights  flooded  into  the  
living  room—they  were  going  into  her  driveway.    I  opened  my  eyes  for  a  moment  but  was  
too  damn  tired  to  get  off  the  couch.    I  heard  only  one  car  door  open  and  slam.    There  was  
some  muffled  arguing  and  then  the  car  sped  off.    I  could  have  sworn  the  car  went  left  but  I  
heard  the  noise  go  right.        
#####  
When  I  saw  Jenny  the  next  morning  walking  to  Ms.  Hunter’s  class  I  couldn’t  stop  
myself  from  speed  walking  over  to  her,  knocking  some  poor  freshman  into  a  trashcan.    
“Hey,  what’s  up,”  I  said.  
“What’s  up?”      She  had  her  hair  down  and  with  her  shoulders  slouched.      
“Are  you  okay?”    I  tried  to  look  through  her  hair  and  see  her  expression.  
“Ya,  I’m  alright.”    Jenny  popped  her  head  up  suddenly  taking  in  a  deep  breath.    “Just  
tired.    I  got  home  late  last  night.”  
“Oh,  that’s  cool.    I  went  to  bed  pretty  late  too.”    I  put  my  hands  in  my  pockets.  
We  walked  into  class  and  took  our  seats.    “Want  to  copy  my  notes  from  yesterday?”  
“That’s  sweet,  but  I’m  alright.”    Jenny  half  smiled  and  put  her  elbows  on  her  desk  
and  rested  her  head  in  her  palm.    Ms.  Hunter  had  a  sub  for  the  day.    The  end  of  class  bell  
made  Jenny  jumped  out  of  her  seat.    “Shit.”    She  looked  around  the  room.  

  A  Sudden  Stop/   11  
“You  fell  asleep.”    I  collected  my  things  quickly,  hoping  to  help  Jenny  with  her  stuff,  
but  she  never  took  anything  out.    She  was  up  with  her  backpack  quicker  than  me.    In  the  
hall  I  tried  to  ask  her  before  we  split  for  lunch  but  I  choked—ironically  on  the  gum  I  
popped  in  my  mouth  specifically  to  freshen  things  up  when  I  asked  her.      
Jenny’s  brother  came  stomping  over  to  her  before  I  could  recover.    “Jenny,  what  was  
all  that  about  last  night,  mom  is  pissed?”  
“What,  go  away  Tim.”  
“Go  away,  some  thanks.    I  tried  to  cover  for.    I  know  you  were  with  some  guy.”  
“Just  go  away  Tim,  go  bother  your  football  pals  or  something.    I  have  a  headache.”      
“More  than  a  headache  is  waiting  for  you  at  home,  that’s  for  sure.”  
“Oooh,  I’m  scared.”    Jenny  swatted  her  hand  at  her  brother.  
“You’ve  been  warned.”    He  turned,  but  before  he  left  he  looked  at  me  and  said,  
“What’s  up  man,  you  okay?    You  look  like  hell.”  
“Hey  Tim,”  I  said.    I  saw  little  black  dots  floating  around  as  soon  as  I  heard  Jenny  was  
with  a  guy.    It  was  like  I  stood  up  too  fast.    I  nearly  fell  over  right  there  in  front  the  flippin’  
lockers.  
“I  got  to  go,”  Jenny  said.    She  gave  me  a  quick  hug  and  walked  off.    That  one  arm  half  
shoulder  squeeze  put  me  just  enough  at  ease  to  make  it  through  the  day.    
That  night  I  sat  up,  thinking  of  how  to  ask  Jenny,  but  I  kept  hearing  what  her  brother  
said,  I  know  you  were  with  some  guy,  over  an  over.      
Fortunately,  I  saw  Jenny  in  her  house  when  I  looked  out  the  living  room  window.    No  
one  came  or  left  that  night.    Ricky  called  me  after  dinner  to  ask  me  what  Jenny  said.    I  told  
him  what  happened.    He  said  he  felt  for  me  and  that  I  needed  to  ask  her  because  he  and  his  

  A  Sudden  Stop/   12  
dad  finally  got  the  Corvette  running.    He  had  called  to  not  just  break  my  balls  but  to  tell  me  
his  dad  was  going  to  let  us  take  the  Vette  to  homecoming.      I’d  be  lying  if  I  said  that  didn’t  
get  my  mind  off  of  Jenny  for  a  bit.    Ricky  and  I  talked,  just  shot  the  shit,  until  we  started  
passing  out  on  the  phone  with  one  another.    Cute,  right.        
#####  
Wednesday  morning  I  sprung  out  of  bed.    I  knew  how  I  was  going  to  ask  Jenny—
junior  high  style,  via  a  note.    It  worked  for  me  three  years  before,  why  not  go  two  for  two.    
On  the  way  to  school  I  got  a  text  from  Ricky.    
  Got  doc  apt  this  morn.    C  U  after  lnch.    Ask  her!  Dnt  Fck  it  up  J.      
I  was  sort  of  relieved  he  wasn’t  going  to  be  there  when  I  gave  her  the  note.    He  
would  probably  have  tried  to  talk  me  out  of  it.      
I  wrote  several  drafts  in  first  and  second  period.    They  were  all  way  too  wordy.    Stuff  
like,  “So,  Jenny.    What’s  up?”  or,  “Hope  your  day  is  going  great.    So,  I  wanted  to  ask  you  
something.”    One  of  them  even  explained  how  I  miss  understood  her  at  last  weeks  game  
when  she  asked  me  about  homecoming—freakin’  dumb  I  know.    I  decided  on:  
Jenny,  
Want  to  come  to  home  coming?  
I  folded  it  into  fourths  and  stuffed  it  into  my  back  pocket.      AP  Psychology  sucked.    In  
general  the  class  sucked,  but  I  took  it  because  Jenny  raved  about  it  last  semester.    Everyone  
else  who  signed  up  for  the  elective  thought  we  would  talk  about  crazy  people,  and  learn  
how  to  interrogate—stuff  like  that.    No,  it  was  all  reading  and  listening  to  Mr.  Miller  lecture  
at  sub-­‐boring  speed.    But  that  day’s  class  was  the  longest  fifty-­‐five  minutes  I  had  ever  
endured.    It  was  so  bad  I  tried  to  listen,  hoping  that  would  make  things  go  by  faster.    Mr.  

  A  Sudden  Stop/   13  
Miller  said  something  about  how  the  brain  can  defy  physics.    That  during  a  traumatic  
experience  our  brains  can  seem  to  slow  down  time  because  they  are  working  so  fast.    With  
that  logic  in  mind  Mr.  Miller’s  class  was  extremely  traumatic  that  day.      
The  bell  rang  and  I  was  out—in  the  hall  desperately  scanning  the  corridor  for  Jenny  
as  more  and  more  students  poured  out  of  classes  and  flooded  in.    As  I  walked  towards  Ms.  
Hunter’s  class  I  kept  grabbing  my  back  pocket  to  make  sure  the  note  was  still  there.  
I  hauled  ass,  bumping  into  backpacks  and  saying  excuse  me  with  every  other  
breathe,  but  some  how  Jenny  beat  me  to  class.    Ms.  Hunter  was  absent  again.    I  sat  down  
and  rolled  my  fingers  across  my  desk.    I  looked  over  at  Jenny  who  was  leaning  back  in  her  
chair  watching  me  squirm.  
“You  okay?”    She  said.  
“What,  me?    Yeah.”    My  hands  were  shaking  and  my  voice  quivered  like  I  was  
thirteen  again.    It  was  uncontrollable.    Even  my  teeth  started  to  chatter.  
Jenny  looked  around  the  room.    “You  on  something?”  
“What,  no.”    Other  than  the  occasional  skunky  beer  I  wasn’t  into  getting  faded  like  
that.    I  took  a  drag  off  one  of  Barney  Miller’s  joints  before  the  spring  dance  last  year.    
Barney  was  our  school’s  resident  stoner  and  I  figured  if  anyone  were  a  reliable  source  for  
my  first  time  it  would  be  him.    I  laughed  hysterically  for  about  fifteen  minutes.    Ricky  found  
me  under  one  of  the  picnic  tables  out  side  of  the  school  gym.    He  helped  me  up  and  I  threw  
up  on  his  shoes.    That  was  it  for  me.  
“Oookay.”    Jenny  rolled  her  eyes,  leaned  over  and  patted  me  on  the  head.      
I  couldn’t  sit  on  the  note  through  another  class  period.  
“Here!”    I  shifted  my  weight  in  my  seat  and  reached  down  the  back  of  my  pants.  

  A  Sudden  Stop/   14  
“What  are  you  doing?”    Jenny  leaned  away  from  me  with  her  eyes  open  wide.  
“I’ve  been  meaning  to  give  you  this.”    Looking  a  little  relieved  Jenny  took  it.    She  
started  to  unfold  it.    “Wait,  wait,”  I  said.      
“What  now?”  
“Just  wait  to  open  it  until  next  period."    As  soon  as  she  took  it  I  regretted  writing  it.    
“Fine,”  Jenny  said  with  a  sigh  of  indifference.      
“Do  you  want  to  go  to  the  homecoming  dance  together?”    It  just  came  out.  
“Oh,  well…”  
“I  figured  since  we  go  to  all  the  games,  you  know.”    I  knew  I  should  just  let  her  talk.    
Get  it  over  with  quickly.    “It  doesn’t  have  to  be  a  date.    You  know?”  
“I  totally  would  but  I’m  going  with  my  boyfriend—”    
That  was  the  last  thing  I  heard.    There  was  a  howling  in  my  ears,  like  a  bomb  being  
dropped  and  the  heat  of  emotion  burned  through  my  face.    Then,  just  like  Ms.  Hunter  said  it  
would,  the  world  stopped  spinning  suddenly.    Sounds  merged  together  like  echoes  in  a  long  
hall  speeding  towards  one  another  and  smashing  together  like  freight  train.    Everything  
moved  as  if  in  a  slow  motion  montage  or  something.    I  saw  Jenny’s  hair  fly  up  around  her  
face.    She  reached  out  for  me  before  being  thrown  across  the  room  and  out  one  of  the  large  
windows  on  the  other  side  of  class.    My  body  lurched  up  but  was  held  in  place  by  my  legs  
that  were  pinned  beneath  the  bars  of  my  desk—the  bolts  at  its  base  rattled  and  squeaked.    
One  after  another  more  students  were  flying  across  the  room  and  out  the  windows  or  being  
pinned  against  the  ceiling.    The  flag  in  the  corner  of  the  room,  sprawled  out  and  waving,  
impaled  the  sub.    Bits  of  pencils,  dirt,  shattered  glass,  and  staples  blew  in  the  air  and  
scratched  the  hell  out  of  my  face  and  arms.    A  textbook  barely  missed  smashing  in  my  

  A  Sudden  Stop/   15  
forehead.    The  classroom  door  came  off  its  hinges  and  went  flailing  down  the  hall.    Kids  and  
some  of  the  staff  all  mixed  together  with  whatever  wasn’t  bolted  down  in  the  hall  and  
rushed  by  Ms.  Hunter’s  classroom,  bouncing  back  and  forth  off  the  lockers  as  they  went.    I  
witnessed  Amanda  Cunningham’s  half  naked  body  slammed  into  the  trophy  case  across  the  
way.    She  waved  her  arms  franticly  until  a  large  floor  buffer  collided  with  her.    Outside  the  
clouds  swirled  around  and  vanished  into  the  sky.    Cars  and  people  outside  were  falling  up,  
followed  by  trees  and  parts  of  buildings,  then  whole  buildings.      Some  of  the  roof  tiles  
cracked  and  then  split  in  half  and  ascended  with  large  chunks  of  the  school.    Just  outside  in  
the  school  mall  Barney  Miller,  barely  visible  through  the  chaos,  clung  desperately  to  a  bike  
chain  attached  to  a  water  pipe,  his  legs  kicking  before  he  disappeared  into  oblivion.    
Everything  was  flying  off  the  planet  at  one  thousand  miles  per  hour.    My  legs  hurt  like  hell  
and  were  probably  broken.    The  pandemonium  faded  with  my  consciences  to  the  sound  of  
Jenny  saying,  my  boyfriend…  my  boyfriend  and  the  sight  of  her  face  as  she  reached  out  for  
me.      
  
    
  
    


