My father is Basque, which is a charitable way of saying he’s uncompromising
and proud, hardheaded when the need arises. At seventy, he’s better fit for
battle than a man who’s travelled his path has a right or even a need to be.
Dad came over from Bilbao when he was twenty-three years old and I’m
convinced he was involved with the leftist separatist group there—ETA—and
fled to America to avoid prison, or worse. We don’t talk about those days.
He’s in the shop now, chatting with our plumbers as they unload their
truck. We run a construction company, which he started the year I was born,
and where he’s made a name for himself building high-end homes. I grew up
on job sites and learned the trades, then went off to UC Davis and picked up a
diploma in Civil Engineering. I graduated on a Saturday and started working
with Dad as a full partner the following Monday. That was eight years ago, and
I’ve taken about ten days off since then.
“Let’s get out of here, Benny.” Dad poked his head in through the office
door. “Ama says dinner will be on the table in twenty minutes.”
I nodded. Mom just called to tell me the same thing. Dad still peppers his
conversation with the old language, more so as his day progresses and he tires,
or as he works his way deeper into a wine jug after dinner. “This bid goes out
tomorrow. I’ll finish checking the numbers and then I’ll head home.”
He looked to the plans spread out before me. “The community center?”

The Abstemious Son/2

Dad doesn’t want to touch this project. His insistence that we build only
homes has frustrated me since we started working together and my pushing
him to think broader goads him. That’s how we work. “It’ll be good for the
company.”
He shook his head. “We grew this business doing what we know. We
can’t risk our reputation messing around where we don’t belong.”
Last year, I pressured him into taking a strip mall job and a library
renovation project that earned us fat margins and a couple of write-ups in the
local news, but he wants nothing to do with change. I still haven’t figured out if
construction is the right course for me, but I’m determined to put my signature
on whatever I do. “We can talk about it later.”
“Later,” he agreed. That’s how we handle disagreement in our family. He
pointed a thumb over his shoulder to the shop. “The boys reminded me you
have a softball game tonight.”
I nodded. “8:00 o’clock.” Dad’s never played a game, nor has he skipped
one of mine. He’s in his glory when he dons a jersey with the company logo and
name emblazoned across the back and struts around the complex buying
drinks for his cronies. He has it in his head that his generosity is free because
he can deduct the expenses from his taxes, and nothing I’ve ever told him has
disabused him of that idea. “Are you coming out for a beer?”
“I go there to work,” he said, smiling. “I get a lot of referrals from that
ballpark.” I’m not aware of one. Nodding at the blueprints, he added, “Don’t be

The Abstemious Son/3

long, Beñat.” That’s my name, but people know me as Benny. “Ama made your
favorite dish.”
“I won’t be ten minutes.” I don’t have the heart to tell him that veal chops
with mushrooms is Ander’s favorite. Ander is my younger brother and we
haven’t seen him in three years.
Dad finally stepped into the office and signaled with both hands for me to
come to him. He’s a hugger and I don’t recall a time that he departed my
company without an embrace. Last week, he got up from his chair when we
were watching a basketball game to get himself a beer and he hugged me on
his way out, and then kissed me on the forehead when he returned. He’s a pain
in the backside, but he’s a lovable one.
I turned to my spreadsheet after he left. Our advantage is that we’ve got
the best crews in the city and we won’t have to subcontract much of the work,
which would eat into the profit. Dad’s philosophy is to pay our workers well
and drive them hard. No one who’s any good has ever quit us and the weak
ones sift themselves out because Dad is as relentless as he is unforgiving. I’ll
leave the iron work, paving, and heating and air conditioning to people who
know those trades, and we can handle the balance. Dad will worry that a job
like this will spread us too thin, but I’ll deal with that and with him when the
time comes.
A din of voices from the shop broke my concentration and I rose to my
feet, curious. One of them was Dad’s and both were emotional and charged,
but I can’t peg the second person.

The Abstemious Son/4

Are they laughing? Was Dad crying? I heard quickened paces coming
toward the office and moved to the door, where I met my father, his eyes
glistening and his hands trembling as he reached for mine. He said, “Ander.”
And there he stood, my brother, in the flesh. He’s aged a decade, but
he’s still wearing that careless grin and those laughing eyes. He’s shaggy and
thin and he looks like the images of Dad I’ve seen in photographs taken when
he was younger. “Look at this,” I said. “Look what the cat drug in.” I lunged at
him and we held each other. I’ve missed this kid so much my heart hurts.
Ander wiped a tear from my face that I didn’t realize was there. “The cat’s
away, big brother. I’m here to play.”
I’ve googled his name every day since he left, trying to keep track of him,
and I know too much about him now. The thing about Ander is that he’s like
our dad. My father was almost forty when he married Mom, who was already
three months down the road with me. All the stories I’ve heard about his
younger days suggest he was as wild as my brother is now, but they’ve lived in
different times. The world was more forgiving when Dad was young, back when
a man could still outrun trouble. I took Ander by the arm. “Let’s get you home.
Mom’s going to kill you and I’m not missing that for anything.”
My father watched us. His boys are together again, and the joy is spilling
out of him. Ander has always been special to Dad. It’s nothing that’s ever made
me jealous; I’m that way with Mom. I think when parents see something of
themselves in their kids it strikes in them a joy and a fear that never fade.
Ander is his father’s son.

The Abstemious Son/5

“I prayed for this day to come,” Dad said. “You don’t know how many
bargains I made with The Boss.” He thought a moment and with a voice of
resignation, said, “I’m gonna have to pay up now, I guess.” To Ander, “Where
the hell have you been?”
“I’ve been everywhere, Aitatxo.” The endearment nearly buckled my
father’s knees and Ander braced him tighter in hands that are both callused
and cracked. “I’ve been wandering the earth,” he said. “Eyes wide open. I’ve
loved every woman who’d have me. I’ve drunk too much, laughed like a fool,
and cried like a baby. I’ve slept in cars, two jail cells, and once a Ferris wheel.
I’ve worked every menial job you can think up, even hauled pigshit for a while.”
He scratched at his unruly hair. “I’ve been living, Dad. That’s where the hell
I’ve been. Now I stand before you broke and broken, wise and wizened…” An
open-mouthed laugh as he shook his head. “Hairy and harried.”
Dad gave me a look suggesting he didn’t catch a word of that. “He lost
his mind is what he did.”
Ander has always been an orator, inspired once he’d drawn a crowd. I
winked at Dad. “You may be right.”
Ander’s bearing stiffened and he grew serious. “Forgive me, Aitatxo.
Forgive me for what I’ve done to you and Ama. And to myself.”
Dad waved him off. “I forgave you the day you left.”
Ander looks like he’s been dragged by the heel through hell’s backyard,
but that smile is constant. “Let’s go see Mom,” he said.

The Abstemious Son/6

He’s changed, but his feral blade still has its edge. I could sit and listen
to his tales, even believe every word, but he’s Ander. Trusting my brother defies
good sense. I pulled him close again, afraid he might slip away. “You won’t
believe this, but Mom made your favorite meal tonight.”
Ander lifted a brow. “Veal chops?”
“With mushrooms. And she’ll try to convince us she had a dream or a
vision, or some mystical prophet told her through her tea leaves that you were
coming home.”
“Maybe one did,” Ander said. “I’ll tell her I had a premonition that she
killed a fatted calf and I came to see if she still knew how to cook it right.”
Dad laughed; family is his world, but Mom is his life, hippy quirks and
all. He wagged his finger at Ander. “Tell her she can’t cook, and she’ll throw
you out of her house.” To me, lip quivering, he added, “Your brother’s home.”
“He is.” And I thought, if he breaks this old man’s heart again, I’ll
strangle him. I know I’m pushing and it’s too soon, but I asked, “What are you
going to do with yourself, Ander?”
“I can still swing a hammer.”
Dad’s tone went somber. “There’s always work here for you.”
“We’ll start you tomorrow,” I added. Ander hugged me again.
I want to believe he’s sincere, but there’s so much history. The kid had
everything growing up—looks, talent, intelligence, and the right home life. In
my senior year of high school when Ander was a freshman, he played on the
sophomore football team and varsity baseball team. He earned academic and

The Abstemious Son/7

athletic scholarships to USC, only to piss them away partying. The university
expelled him, and our parents put him through rehab, then tried to kick start
him at community college. He flunked out again, didn’t want to work in the
family business, and aspired to rule the world. He almost made it everywhere
he went, but he had no anchor and he failed utterly. Then one day he left.
“You’re a part of the business,” Dad said, “but nobody works tonight.”
He’d aimed this last part at me, and he’s right. The bid is ready; I’ve
checked the numbers three times and I think we can get the job. “We’re
starting the groundwork on a hillside project out in Patterson tomorrow. A big
home with a new architect. Can you still operate a shovel?”
“He can do anything he sets his mind to.” My father’s unfailing support
of his younger son has helped Ander through life as much as it has hindered
him. Dad believes in him, though, so I’ll put Ander to work convincing him that
the community center job will be good for us. My father laid his laborers’ hands
over our shoulders and led us out through the shop. “Call up the boys, Benny.
Tell ‘em we won’t make it out to the ballpark, tonight.”
Ander held us up. “Softball?” I nodded and his smile widened. “Let’s go. I
can’t remember the last time I set foot on a diamond.” To Dad, “We’ll bring
Mom out. The poor soul needs a break from the two of you.”

The game was a rout. Our team is a mottled assembly drawn from the ranks of
our employees, and despite half of them turning out in blue jeans and work
boots, and the entire outfield chain smoking through the game, we aren’t bad.

The Abstemious Son/8

With Ander, we were unstoppable. He was a brick wall at shortstop and in four
plate appearances he hit two homeruns, a triple and a double. The other team
was applauding his efforts by the final inning.
Now with a dozen people circled around him, he’s regaling the crowd with
anecdotes from his past and plans for his future. I love the knucklehead, but I
wonder about him. He’s never developed the discipline it takes to get out of bed
in the morning, or to climb back into the same one again at night. Born on a
mountaintop, he never had to climb, but the fact that he’s drinking water and
not beer suggests that he spent some part of the past three years at lower
elevation. His climb may yet be ahead of him.
Mom has asked a couple times if I’m feeling well. Her skill at sensing the
slightest emotional anomaly is unnerving, and I don’t know how to respond to
her. I left the group to order a couple pitchers of beer and to set my mind
straight. As I watch my family from the bar, I accept that I am troubled tonight.
Ander is home and it’s like he never left; I’m happy for him and for our family,
but I feel a hesitation that I am unable to name.
A hand clapped me on the back, and I turned to see Arlen Knowles,
another builder who hasn’t been around quite as long as Dad, but his shop is
the biggest in town. He’s smart, wary, skilled at getting work, and though he’s
not known for top-shelf quality, he runs a good site. Dad and Arlen have never
been friends, but they’ve always been friendly. Arlen strikes me as artificial,
almost condescending toward Dad and his Old-World values. He’s thrown a few
jobs our way over the years, but Dad never failed to be too busy to take one of

The Abstemious Son/9

them, protecting his reputation like a kitten among wolves. I offered my hand.
“Hi, Arlen. Are your boys playing?”
“They’re out on Field 4 now,” he said. “I see your brother is back.”
“He’s home.”
“That’s good. Is he going to work for you and Martin?”
“With us,” I corrected. The bartender delivered my beer.
The table erupted in laughter in response to a tale Ander was weaving.
“I’m happy for you,” Arlen said, observing my brother. “My best to your folks.”
“Thanks. Go on over and say hello.” I reached for the pitchers.
“You aren’t bidding the community center project, are you?”
This is where I need to be careful with Arlen. “You know how Dad likes to
stick with what he knows.”
“I guess I do,” he said, laughing. “But I heard you were soliciting quotes
from subs.”
I hiked my shoulders in feigned defeat. “I tried to talk him into bidding
the project, but he dug in.”
Arlen shrugged his sympathy, though I caught a flash of relief crossing
his face. “I’m going to get that job, Benny.”
“Good luck.”
“And I want you to run it for me.”
Life has taught me to duck and cover when an unidentified object comes
flying my way. “Is that right?”

The Abstemious Son/10

“That little mall on K Street was tricky work on a tight schedule,” Arlen
said. “I didn’t bid it because the timeline was unrealistic, but you got it done a
week early. You should be running real projects, Benny. Let Martin and Ander
build their homes. They’ll be happy. They’re two of a kind.”
“How so?” I know how, but I’m curious to hear his take.
“Your father sewed plenty of wild oats in his day. Some of them right
alongside of me. From what I’ve seen, the nuts in your family don’t fall far from
the asylum window.” I know Arlen’s sense of humor, and I can’t argue his
point. “Is Ander here to stay?” he asked.
I said he is, but I don’t know. The reunion at home was touching and
everyone wept. We held each other for so long, but he’s… Well, he’s Ander.
“Then do him a favor and step out of his way. If he thinks he’s edging
you out, he’ll disappear again. You’ve got bigger things ahead of you.”
I know when I’m being played, and what greater manipulator is there
than the truth? “He’s home, Arlen. We’re family.”
“Come work for me and do what you were meant to do.”
“I don’t know…”
He smiled like he’d set a hook and getting the fish into the boat was now
only a matter of maneuvering. “I’m expecting to get this community center
project, and I’ve got an inside track on a renovation in the Bay Area of a 200store shopping center. My superintendent—you know Calvin—he’s retiring this
winter and I’m too old to run these jobs myself.”
“I appreciate—”

The Abstemious Son/11

“The money is good, and you won’t be competing with your father.”
I watched my family again. They’re content. Fulfilled. So, what’s
bothering me about this offer? Ander might be willing and in time able to take
charge, and Dad might even understand my position. But something I can’t get
a grip on is burrowing in me. “What makes you so confident you’ll win the
community center job?”
He waved off my question. “I’ll get it.”
An out of town company would have to pay lodging and meals for its
crews or sub out much of the work to locals. There are three other outfits in
town besides Arlen’s that can manage this job, and the story I’ve heard is that
the four of them decide among themselves who gets each project this big as it
comes along. The company whose turn has come up submits a comfortable
bid, while the others render offers so far afield as to price them out of the job.
Everyone wins in the long run except the customers.
“Where’s that beer?” Dad waved from his table when he noticed Arlen.
I raised the pitchers, leaving. “I’ll think about your offer.”
“You do that.”
“Or maybe I’ll bid on the center.” I smiled and Arlen laughed outright.

We reached the shop in the morning eager to start the hillside house. Ander
jumped into the fray, getting trucks and teams out the door to the three homes
we have in progress, and finally loading Dad’s pickup with the job boxes we’d
already set up for today.

The Abstemious Son/12

Dad enjoys pushing the earth around and I can see him and Ander
working the heavy loaders in a ballet of orange steel. I feel an affection for these
two men that had gone dormant in me. Ander’s return has brought life back
into Dad that had been gone so long I’d stop noticing its absence. I understand
now what I was struggling to name last night, what stung me when Arlen made
his offer.
“Are you coming?” Ander called out from behind the wheel of the truck.
I want to ask him if he’s going to stick it out with us. I know what he’ll
answer, and I can’t say I’ll believe him when I hear it. Men like Ander and my
father need to be tethered; they need each other in a way they’ll never need me.
“I’ll catch up to you,” I said, “after I get this bid in.”
Ander spoke to Dad over his shoulder, watching me. “Can you believe
this?” he said. His grin was wide now. “What some guys will cook up to avoid
honest work?”
“Get out of here.”
They drove off and I turned to the bid packet on my computer. Arlen is
too confident, and he’ll come in fat on his proposal. I’ll swipe the job out from
under him, but then what? I’ll never work for Arlen, but he did get me thinking
about my direction. I’m wrestling with the idea that I’m no longer needed here,
now that Ander is home.
What I noticed last night as I watched Benny and Dad at the ballpark is
that they belong together. More than that, the obstruction that I’d been so
hesitant to name and the fact that I’ve been hiding from since my first day

The Abstemious Son/13

working as a partner is that I don’t belong. I haven’t yet found my place, but it
isn’t here. Not anymore. I’ve been holding the company and Dad together until
my errant brother found his way home. We’ll get the community center project
and Dad, with Ander, can run it. That should anchor them.
And what about me? I’ll go. I can’t say where, but it’s time I set out on
my own journey. I’m sure I’ll find my way once I start looking for it.


