“I can see your thong.” My mother’s voice was low and harsh. She stood
before some unsuspecting Republican’s lawn, flanked by two weathered Trump
Pence signs, gearing up to singlehandedly convert one conservative at a time. Like
some middle-aged Joan of Arc, she’d uprooted us from Brooklyn right after the
Presidential election and moved us to rural Pennsylvania, where her political
aspirations could make a difference. And although I was nineteen, I couldn’t just
wish her well and traipse off to college. A sizeable fuck-up left me repeating my
senior year, so I was trapped, doomed to play the prop of wholesome daughter as
we trudged door-to-door, kickstarting her campaign for City Council.
I’d bent into the car to place my coffee back into the drink holder because,
moments before, she’d complained that it made me look too Starbucks when the
look we wanted was old-fashioned family values. As I stretched with the coffee, a

ripping sound preceded the swish of my right boob dislodging from its packaging.
The strap of my tank top with the built-in shelf bra snapped in half, and though it
was covered by my flannel button down, I was a lover of symmetry. Leaning
forward, I attempting to coax the errant breast back into my shirt, but it was out
there, shirt flap dangling, the boob hopelessly abandoned. Sliding into the
passenger’s seat, I smiled thinly at her, a warning that she was testing my patience
and that in this scenario, she needed me, so she’d better check her tone.
She swatted a stack of tri-fold brochures against her leather portfolio. “We’re
going for a certain image, Prue. You know that.”
“If that image is deception, I commend you on your efforts.”
In November, she’d been on the New York City Council and was poised for a
future mayoral run, but post-election she swiftly took her trust fund elsewhere. The
list of possibilities had included all the states that switched from blue to red and was
narrowed based on quality of life and public schools that actually somewhat
resembled institutions specializing in learning. Now I was a hostage in a place where
campaigning door-to-door required a car, as well as vague sound bites like strong
neighborhoods and secure incomes. Because according to my mother, in order to
affect change in rural areas, you had to “focus on the things we can all agree on.” I
wondered at what point she’d get real and tell these people that she was fervently
anti-gun, a regular crusader since my dad had been shot. But apparently making
allies was more nuanced than barging into the living rooms of camouflage-clad
hunters and telling them that they didn’t need those AK-47’s, or the handguns, or
maybe any of them depending on their criminal rap sheet and mental health record.

Lombardo/The Peacefulness You Long For/3
I wasn’t totally vacuous. I saw where she was going with the whole thing and,
at times, telekinetically communicated my approval, but it still pissed me off that I
didn’t get a say. She’d just yanked me out of private school mid-year, implying that
since I’d made a mess of my life, excluding myself from consideration for the Browns
and Yales of the world, I was unworthy of our considerable family resources, and
might as well just get a job at Arby’s and be done with it.
Now, every morning I woke up in our “reasonably priced and furnished”
home, struggling to quiet my vijñāna and meditate despite the fucking woodpecker
going nuts on the tree outside my window, and giving up in a very discouraged state
in which I reassured myself that while I’d likely be reborn as a demi-god, my mother
was sure to reincarnate as an ant. But thoughts matter, and I didn’t appreciate the
additional hits to my Karma.
I got out of the car and tried to play my role to the best of my abilities when
all I could think about was meeting Sky later and how I’d let him maul me in the
backseat of his dirty, stinky car. While my mother prattled on about neighborhood
revitalization and transparency to a hunched man with the eyes of a child molester, I
dreamed of Sky’s rural, milk-fed teeth biting the round of my shoulder in an
uncharacteristic display of passion. The child molester asked her our last name and
squinted suspiciously when he didn’t recognize it. Then, of course, he called us out,
as many had done before him. “You’re not from around here, are you?” It was
uncanny how, in this small corner of the world, it seemed you could count the last
names in circulation on your ten fingers. You were a Snyder or a Stoltzfus or a Groff
or Koch, or maybe, if not, you weren’t from around here after all.

Lombardo/The Peacefulness You Long For/4
“We’re originally from New York.” (note the insertion of “originally” and the
omission of “City.”)
“And you go to Penn Valley?” he asked me.
“Yes, sir,” I said, all cherry pie and straight A’s.
He grunted and turned, taking down a framed picture from the wall behind
him. He shoved it at me, a grainy, black and white group photo, Class of 1962. “So
you must know this guy, eh?”
“Oh, um….”
“Dickie Krieder. Teaches woodshop.”
“No, sir. I’ve heard of him, of course, but I haven’t taken that class yet.”
He nodded, pointing again. “How about this one. You must know her.” He
watched me expectantly.
I gave my mother a death-glare and lied, because our credibility was at stake.
“Oh, sure. Yes.”
“I thought so. Everybody knows her.”
“We all love her.”
“That’s not what I heard, but don’t tell her I said so.”
If I kept this up, I’d spend my next life schlepping up the anthill behind my
mother, balancing Cheerio crumbs on my back. Aware that she’d pushed me to the
limits of what one human should reasonably be expected to endure in a single
afternoon, we agreed that Sky could pick me up at the next house.
“For the record, I never asked you to lie,” she said.
#

Lombardo/The Peacefulness You Long For/5
At the next house, I informed her that it was the anniversary of dad’s death.
“Do you really think it helps to hold onto it like that?”
“I never said it helped.” I reached across her to shut off the car, her signal to
exit. I could picture her face, the tragic, cracked expression, without looking. I hadn’t
said it for sympathy or some Hallmark moment. I just wanted her to know I
remembered.
“I thought starting over would make things easier. I want more for you than
the life you’d chosen in Brooklyn.”
She was referring partly to the fact that after my dad’s death I’d basically
checked out of school and slept with any guy who’d have me, and mostly to the apex
of my crack-up, shacking up for four months with Bob, some guy in a really shitty
band, necessitating the repetition of my senior year.
I pulled down the visor and pretended to care about my hair. “You can go.”
Eventually, she did.
Instead of waiting in the car, I stood by the chest-high wire fence around the
farmhouse’s property, prompting frequent nervous glances from the owner, a grayhaired homely woman pretending to listen to my mother while likely hypothesizing
about why I was loitering around her property. Time to build a taller fence.
I got to business on my broken tank top, doing some serious tucking and
rearranging and eventually fixing the problem by tying the remaining straps in a
knot. Finally. I could breathe. The homely woman was flat out staring at this point,
but I’d shifted into full-on mental health mode. Even minor physical discomforts
could push me into a realm where my mood became impossible to turn around. If I

Lombardo/The Peacefulness You Long For/6
wasn’t hyper vigilant, I risked pooling into a puddle of grief-tinged despair. Besides,
if a car wasn’t required to go EVERYWHERE in this God-forsaken place, I’d already
be at Sky’s house instead of stranded on the side of the road, digging at myself like a
stray dog.
Before we moved, my mom had freaked over buying a car, salivating over
navigation systems, forward collision sensors, even occupant classification systems,
though we possessed no toddler to hypothetically put in the front seat, thus no need
to hypothetically disable the airbag. She’d become obsessed by safety just as I’d
come to the conclusion that there was no such thing. It was telling that of all the
things we’d “downgraded” to “fit in” here ⎯ my education being foremost in my
mind ⎯ we purchased a BMW, my mother being suddenly taken with German
engineering. But alas, I wrestled by brain away from the ledge of this “negativity
spiral,” and thought instead of my old therapist promising me that Pennsylvania
would be an “opportunity.” I had no choice but to believe her. It helped to believe
things.
When Sky pulled up, he suggested we get stoned and drive through the car
wash. I made fun of him a little, but agreed. It wasn’t like I had a better suggestion. It
was an “opportunity” to further experience my new life. So we smoked all the way
there as I told him about my fear of reincarnation as an ant.
“You’re in high school. You can’t be a Buddhist.”
“So because we’re young we can’t be things?” I yawned, scanning the secondrate shopping centers lining the road.

Lombardo/The Peacefulness You Long For/7
“We aspire to be things. You’re an aspiring Buddhist. I’m an aspiring
musician.”
“But surely I could be called a brilliant student, or a rebellious daughter.”
“They’re roles you’re already playing.”
I snorted. “But you’re probably already a Christian, right? I mean, as long as
your religious affiliation is handed out at birth, or common in your society, you can
embody that role before you’re even capable of speech. Right?”
Sky shrugged. “I just think you want to be a Buddhist.”
“I do. That’s why I am.”
“You’re, like, obsessed with trying to be different cause you’re pissed you live
in a shit town now.”
“Aha! So it’s the difference that leads you to question the authenticity. You’re
not actually concerned with the meditation hours I’ve clocked or my progression
towards Nirvana.”
We pulled into the car wash, at the end of one of three lanes of cars belching
smoke, inching toward a chick with shorty shorts and fake nails who’d take our
order, scroll something in chalk-marker letters on the windshield and advance us to
Tunnel One or Tunnel Two. When we reached her, she asked a bunch of questions
and whispered into her headset all official-like, and I let the paranoia wash over me,
visions of squad cars chasing us for being stoned and young and horney, of school
officials speeding to retrieve us (even though it wasn’t a school day), of nuns
smacking my hands with rulers for wearing a thong. I laughed at them all until we

Lombardo/The Peacefulness You Long For/8
steered into the first tunnel where a guy wielded a power washer like a machine
gun. The loud spray pounded the car and, irrationally, I felt as though I’d been shot.
Dad died of a gunshot wound to the heart at approximately 5:45 p.m. on April
4th, two years ago. He’d been alone, a few blocks from Washington Square Park, with
no reason we could think of to be there at that time, on that day. The gunman struck
him on the head with the pistol, then lowered it to his chest. He’d died within
moments. We didn’t know if it was random or pre-meditated. We never found out
who did it or my father’s exact business that day. The only clues were the contents
of his pockets ⎯ a pack of gum, some loose change. In his wallet, the stack of fortune
cookie messages he collected, one of them starred in blue ballpoint that read: Today
it’s up to you to create the peacefulness you long for. Nothing to explain it, nothing to
define him, nothing but questions lodged in my chest, where a beating heart had
once been.
“Let this be another brick in, like, your path to enlightenment,” Sky said,
circling his thumb inside my palm. “Ready for the time of your life?”
And just like that, Sky brought me back from the precipice. Aside from his
adorable face, I loved his compulsion to twist everything into a joke. As I would’ve
done. Most people couldn’t balance caring and not-caring. But I took my detached
sarcasm seriously. It was more than some sad Millennial plight, it was therapeutic.
Irony is the mother of detachment, and thus the ultimate Buddhist statement.
Besides, sincerity is fucking terrifying.

Lombardo/The Peacefulness You Long For/9
Car set to neutral, we wormed along toward shooting streams of water and
multicolored everything ⎯ spinning things, rolling things, soapy strips of squeegees
swaying left and right, and blinking carnival lights ⎯ blue, red, even purple.
Sky held the one-hitter to my lips and lit it. “One more time.”
I exhaled, head back, eyes catching the moon roof just as psychedelic streams
of colored soap shot all over the glass. The strips of color bled together and foamed,
and the sweet violence of it all hit me square in the crotch. I could’ve straddled him
right there, but I pressed my thighs together, savoring the agony.
We watched in silence as the swaying tentacles worked their way over the
windshield and the spinning things pelted us with staccato drops of soap and the car
lurched into a manufactured waterfall that blurred our vision and churned the suds
into a surf-like mix blasted away moments later by a giant, drive-through hairdryer.
And before the green “Drive your Car” light even illuminated, Sky peeled out of the
mouth of the drying chamber, bypassed the boys in the red shirts that hand-dried
cars with threadbare towels and sped away to a nearby forested place called The
Grove where we liked to make out.
#
Afterwards, sprawled naked across the back seat, I pretended I’d just been
deflowered, pushing all knowledge of my brief but prosperous descent into
sluttiness in Brooklyn to a remote corner of my mind. The birds hopped from
branch to branch outside the steamed window, the blue sky a stippled smear,
melting with the dripping condensation.

Lombardo/The Peacefulness You Long For/10
I pulled Sky outside, into the sunlight, liking the scent of honeysuckle on the
breeze. Maybe this place wasn’t so bad. Maybe car washes and wildflowers and
rustling leaves and chirping birds and pretend virginity losses were on par with
everything I’d left behind. Yes, I’d embrace The Pennsylvania Experience. Become an
experience collector, and after I breathed this in, I’d move on ⎯ steal the car and
drive across the country writing the great American novel (which would,
unfortunately, be dystopian now) on a roll of toilet paper. Lose my virginity in every
random town along the way. Tear down the Confederate flags in Mississippi and
Alabama. Sleep in the desert. Befriend coyotes. Read tarot cards with the gypsies in
Venice Beach. I’d drift, no possessions, just memories.
We dressed out in the open, and as I pulled the knotted strap of my tank top
over my shoulder, the knot held, but one end broke from the shirt. “Shit.” Staring at
my bare shoulder, the frayed strap dangling over my abdomen, the fabric sagging
low on my boob, practically exposing the nipple, annoyance replaced my newly
manufactured hope.
“Torn in a fit of post-car wash orgasmic frenzy, eh?”
“Nice try.” I shrugged on my flannel, buttoning myself up, plagued by the
strap dangling there like a shriveled condom, my shoulder bare like that, boob loose
like that. I climbed into the passenger’s seat and shrank into the curve of the door,
feeling like a cliché: broken girl with broken clothes commits broken acts with
series of haphazardly chosen guys. I was an after-school special.
#

Lombardo/The Peacefulness You Long For/11
Operation Return Sky’s Mom’s Car, which was to be followed by a stroll into
town for cheese fries at the diner, a simple plan that went awry. The Simons
residence was a stately country home on Main Street, within walking distance to
school. Electric candles in each shutter-framed window. Brick, gingerbread
woodwork, porches everywhere, some screened, some not. Upon entry, the charm
disappeared, replaced with a quick smack of chaos and ruin. A large section of the
ceiling by the front door was falling down. Bubbled and peeled drywall,
disintegrated in places, exposing the wood lath beneath. A long, dark table below a
carved gilt mirror the size of a piano, stacked with piles of shit. Similar piles of shit
on a curved staircase leading to the second floor. Laundry, shoes, shit in bags, shit
magazines, shit that might otherwise have a logical “place” in another home ⎯
batteries, Ibuprofen bottles, Band-Aids, empty Scotch-tape dispensers. It was clear
that this was the shit of hoarders.
Next was the fucking dog, a huge black lab jumping and drooling all over me.
Sky subdued it by sitting on it until it calmed. When it was safe, we hefted piles of
shit from two chairs at a large table just outside the kitchen. Sky mumbled apologies
for the mess, wandering around the room cradling his pile, hopelessly searching for
a mound that wouldn’t topple if made taller, settling for the floor. A small TV from
another era blared Fox News. As soon as I sat, the dog was back at it, sniffing,
drooling, licking. I held it off with an extended leg.
“Sky? Is that you?” called a mother-voice from upstairs. Without waiting for
an answer, feet pounded down the stairs and she emerged in fleece jammies and a
thick bathrobe.

Lombardo/The Peacefulness You Long For/12
“Oh, no!” she shrieked when she saw me fighting off the dog. She gripped it
by its collar, dragged it across the room and plopped herself on top of it, just like her
son. “Sorry. It’s not her fault. She gets so excited to see people!” Then, cutting her
eyes toward Sky, she said, “I wish I’d known we were expecting company. I would’ve
pick up the place!”
As if.
“Mom, this is Prue.”
She released the dog and grabbed the remote control, making moves to lower
the volume, but stopped short of clicking, her attention snagged by something
onscreen. “What a nice name.” Then, to Sky, “Your father’s been looking through old
yearbooks in his underwear. I hope he puts on pants before he wanders down here.”
Sky whistled. “That’d be a show.”
She frowned at me. “Trust me. You don’t want to see that.”
I gave Sky a pleading look, making sure he saw me elbowing the dog’s head
away from my crotch. He tossed the car keys onto the table, or rather onto a pile,
and made excuses for why we had to get going. Mrs. Simons didn’t seem to hear.
Loud, off-key singing drifted downstairs, paired with heavy footsteps. I
sighed and plopped my ass back down. We were stuck, fated to exchange
pleasantries with the other half of the Simons parental equation. The dog had snuck
under the table from some unseen entry point, sinking its snout into my crotch
head-on. I yelped. Bare nipple grazing the cottony fuzz inside my shirt and
beginning to chafe, I held out my palms to it like a traffic cop.

Lombardo/The Peacefulness You Long For/13
Sky yanked the dog from me, tugging it across the room. “Uhhh…just ignore
everything my dad says. He’s a lawyer, not a regular human.” He tossed the dog into
another room, slamming the door in its barking face.
“True,” his mom agreed.
The singing man appeared, in pants, beelining to a makeshift bar arranged in
the corner, pouring himself a full 8-ounce glass of vodka and downing half of it
without a wince. “Poor Val. No one pays attention to her.”
I hadn’t been in a household containing a full, nuclear family since we moved.
Even with all that canvassing, it was always just one person who answered the door.
It felt alien to have so many competing presences in one room.
“’Cause she sucks,” Sky said.
The dog scratched against the door. Then came a thud, and another, and
another. The 150-lb. dog hurled itself against a disintegrating wooden door in a
disintegrating wooden home. No one acknowledged it, though Sky glared at his mom
as if to say, take care of this shit, would you?
Mr. Simons shuffled to the head of the table with his glass and a small pile of
shit which he placed on top of all that sat there before. He shook my hand with mock
formality. “The girlfriend, I presume.”
Mrs. Simons fled to the kitchen, automatic, Pavlovian.
“Dad, this is Prue.”
“Prude? As in a prude?”
“Prudence,” I said, a lump forming in my throat.

Lombardo/The Peacefulness You Long For/14
Mr. Simons checked his chunky watch, a Rolex, which seemed at odds with
his yellowed undershirt and frayed jeans. Everything about them was a
contradiction. Like wealth dried up, or simply festering in the hands of the
incompetent. “Going someplace?” His air was one of extreme agitation, although
taking his living conditions into consideration, I couldn’t fully blame him.
“To the diner,” Sky said.
“Oh, bullshit. What am I, an idiot?”
Sky kicked the chair leg with the tip of his sneaker, staring at the floor rather
than meeting his dad’s eyes. Kick, kick, kick, rhythmic and constant. “We are, Dad.
Just stop. Please?”
He polished off the vodka. “Humor an old man and tell me this much. You two
are using protection, right?”
“Excuse me?” I said.
“Right?” he pressed, deadpan.
Seemed after spending two minutes with me, he was sure I was putting out.
One minute calling me a prude and the next a slut, my only choices, if they could be
called that.
I tried to think of something clever to say, to pummel him with indifference
or at least amuse myself trying, but all I could think of was the night of my formal,
back in Brooklyn when dad held me tight to his chest, so proud of his baby girl who
wore the black dress with the plunging neckline so nicely. Just like a little lady. Look
at those curves! Look at that lipstick! Look at that tousled hair! What a lady! What a
man killer! His baby girl. Sure, post that shit on Facebook! Sure! Show the world

Lombardo/The Peacefulness You Long For/15
what a beautiful girl my baby is! But oh, how his tune changed when I came home
late that night, missing curfew by a couple hours, lipstick smudged, hair askew,
dress wrinkled. There’d been a line I hadn’t seen. I was to pretend to be all grown
up, not actually do it. Okay to flirt, okay to tease, to play the vixen, all grown up,
making the boys drool, but not okay to want. Not okay to take or give. Everybody all
lined up to reward the elaborate ruse. Not the fallout. Nope, nobody around to
accept that but me. I’d fucked again out of spite, and again out of want, and again out
of remorse, and now, in a strange house, with a strange family, in a strange town,
alone again, deflowered again, the stickiness fermenting between my legs, my
fucking breast bare, chafed and branded, being asked which was it, a prude or a slut,
to choose, again, always to choose. As if they didn’t make it for me every time
anyway.
“Yeah, we use protection,” I said.
Mr. Simons laughed. “Thank you! Was that so hard?”
He beamed at me. Now he knew what he was dealing with. That made it
easier. Especially when the slut wasn’t your daughter. And the boys, well, as long as
they didn’t knock anybody up, it was probably just a lot of atta boy’s! and slaps on
the back and condom-stuffed Christmas stockings.
Mrs. Simons drifted back into the doorframe.
I vaulted out of the chair and walked the length of the table, flipping through
random books and magazines. “So it’s cool as long as your progeny doesn’t get
strapped with a kid?”
“Prue? Maybe we should go.” Sky placed his hand on my shoulder.

Lombardo/The Peacefulness You Long For/16
I was desperate to chill out, to stop making a scene, but I couldn’t quite bring
myself to walk toward the door. Where was my characteristic cool? The musty air
stilled and grew heavy, the dog threw itself against the door.
“I’ve upset you,” Mr. Simons said. His voice cracked and those eyes, which
had been so hard before, were watery. Was he tearing up? He didn’t know me,
couldn’t possibly give a shit to that degree, to warrant tears. It had to be the vodka.
Or an eye condition. “Believe it or not, a kid usually isn’t a good option for anyone
your age.”
“You just met her!” Mrs. Simons said to her husband.
“I hope to meet her again. Under non-crisis circumstances.”
“How could you just assume?” she asked.
“Not a big leap. That’s all I did at that age.”
It was too much. Mr. and Mrs. Simons playing the role of concerned parents,
Sky shuffling, a scorned child, the shaking door against which a 150-pound animal
made herself known. Woof, thud.
Mr. Simons cleared his throat. “I’m sorry if my manner startled you. Please,
sit down. Stay for dinner. Have a drink.”
I shivered, the situation drifting beyond my grasp. Instead of playing it cool,
I’d made things real, and now I didn’t know what to do with these people, stepping
all over each other’s lives, their mess bleeding into my own. At once dismissive,
forgiving, blaming, offensive, apologetic, taking turns trying on these roles, wearing
them for a moment, then switching, and switching again, writhing all over one

Lombardo/The Peacefulness You Long For/17
another the way families do. It cracked something in my already weak and
crumbling veneer.
“Thank you for having me here.” I kissed Sky on his trembling lips, wishing I
could comfort him, or take him with me, but I couldn’t. And before I left, I surprised
myself and opened the door that held Val and the dog burst into the room in an
undeniable force of fur and stink and slobber.
Outside, I ran in the direction I thought might lead me home. Mostly lost,
running toward a vague sense of something in a broken tank top, with a mostly
exposed, flopping boob. I imagined people peering out their shuttered windows and
watching me, this mess of a girl, and the urge to cry left. Three blocks later, I called
my mom.
#
Looking ragged, she retrieved me from the parking lot of a mom and pop
hardware store that was closing for the night. She asked me what happened, but
gross oversimplification seemed the only way to bridge our divide.
“His house was Fox News-central. I don’t know how you deal with these
people all day.”
“I’m trying to imagine the ways we’re similar.”
“What if there’s no common ground? What if your little experiment doesn’t
even work and no one wants to sit in a circle and sing kumbaya with you?”
My mother cleared her throat and tucked a stray clump of hair behind her
ear. It was graying at the temples, unusual for her. She’d always been so meticulous
about her appearance. I shuddered, imagining her settling into her new

Lombardo/The Peacefulness You Long For/18
surroundings a bit too much, foregoing pedicures and root touch-ups for a few too
many homemade cookies and hand-knit sweaters.
“When you meditate, is it to let go of things?”
I tried to figure out her angle. Her questions were usually leading, lobbed to
hit home the severity of a fuck-up or force the admission of a shortcoming.
“It’s to separate myself from the world around me. The suffering and loss and
hypocrisy and bullshit.”
“But if you take yourself out of the world, what does that do to joy? Or me
and you? Or you and Sky?”
“Unfortunately, it’s not permanent.”
Her face blotched over and I rolled me eyes, awaiting the tears. “Today, right
before you called, I ran away from a man’s house when he tried to show me his gun.
I lost it. I thought he was going to do something terrible, but now I think…he was
just trying to show me his gun.”
Our road was deserted, but she still used her turn signal before steering into
our driveway. Here was this woman, related to me, alone (except for me), not
another moving car around her probably for miles, signaling into the night. To no
one at all. Just in case.
She shut off the car and stared straight ahead, into the darkening night. “All
this time I thought I was listening. I thought I was doing something.”
I touched her arm lightly. Was she having a breakdown? Or as fucked up as
me? Or having second thoughts? Was her can-do, down-to-business, pulled together
and zipped up attitude just a front?

Lombardo/The Peacefulness You Long For/19
When we entered the house, I went to the mantle and stared at the urn that
held my father’s ashes. I ripped off my shirts, finally feeling the symmetry I craved,
and cradled the urn against my bare chest. He’d been shot two weeks after my
formal. We hadn’t been speaking. I settled into a leather recliner, topless, placing
him between my legs, careful to squeeze him tightly between my thighs, to keep him
upright and in one piece.
She cloaked my shoulders with her jacket and rubbed my arms to warm
them.
The wind picked up and the loose shutters knocked against the house. “The
temperature is dropping,” she said. “It’s supposed to snow. Let’s build a fire.”
We stacked wood into the fireplace, piecing together a mosaic of logs and
kindling. I set my father back onto the mantle, and my mom lit some crumbled up
campaign letterhead. The paper smoked and burned and we watched as the flames
took hold and the smoke snaked up the chimney and fresh ash flaked down through
the grates, dusting the cracked bricks. As the day burned away to reveal what was
left.

-THE END-


