I was sixteen before I found out I wasn’t their kid. Might not have happened then if Pops
hadn’t been coming off anesthesia. He was still half loopy and both of them were giddy with the
good news. I knew Mom worried that the plumber’s diet, the daily double cheeseburger and
supersized fries, might be a factor. The doctor gave the all-clear though, and recommended a
follow-up colonoscopy five years out. “After all the house drains I rooted out,” Pops told the two
of us, “and here they go snaking a tube up my tailpipe.” We laughed as if we hadn’t heard it five
times before.
“We didn’t know what we were getting into,” he said when he first woke up and saw me.
“Or what we were doing when we picked you out of those other adoption babies.” He was
propped up on the angled hospital bed with a pillow behind him. “Your mama said it had to be a
girl and, well, I went along to make her happy.” The mood left Mom’s face like draining
bathwater. “We reached into that box of Crackerjack, and you were the prize.” Both arms
stretched toward me from the gaping sleeves of his patient gown, like I was supposed to hug him
for saying that. I did.
Mom and I sat in the waiting room while Pops got dressed and processed out. “Delia,
baby, we always loved you like, as much as . . .” She was having a hard time putting her words
into sentences. I had a hard time putting my tumbling thoughts into words.
“Where’d you, like, get me from?
“Right here. Through the Women’s Health Center, downtown Middleton.”

The Prize

2

Okay, I shoulda had some doubts years before. I don’t look much like either one of them.
Mom is as fair as country buttermilk covered in orange freckles with rich auburn hair. And
people started calling Pops ‘Papa Smurf’ way before I came along. Maybe some inside joke I
was never in on, but I guess because he looked like this old cartoon character. He wasn’t blue, of
course, but short, with a build like that, and it paired up easy with our last name. Smurf
McMurphy.
I was always one of the tallest girls at school with round brown eyes, raven hair, and
what they call ‘olive’ skin. I had noticeable boobs and had to shave around the edge of my bikini
bottom when I was eleven. Older guys got real interested before I was a teenager. When people
would ask, Mom would say I looked just like the great aunt I was named after. I never met Aunt
Delia.
Some weeks before Pops blabbed in the recovery room, I was one of two girls handed a
personal business card from the photographer taking school pictures. He said his R/V was a
mobile studio and wanted to discuss a career in professional modeling. What he really wanted to
talk about is another story, but with all that going on, the notion of ‘real parents’ never occurred
to me. For a long time after what Pops told me that day, it was hard to focus on anything else.
It wasn’t like, a conscious thing, but after I found out I didn’t think about my parents in
the same way. It all started to make sense. I belonged in another life, in another place. My grades
were good. Mom worked as a career counselor at the community college and knew some things.
She told me that, with my test scores and some financial aid, I could follow whatever
professional path I wanted to pursue. For all I knew I carried the DNA to become a famous
scientist or surgeon, physicist or astronaut, even. That wasn’t going to happen here, in the middle

The Prize

3

of a little town in the center of a rectangular state, bordered all around by other rectangles, dead
in the middle of the country.
Pops wanted me to study for the license and take over his plumbing business. He’d
worked for years, he said, filling his Rolodex with local clientele. We were sitting in the open
garage one afternoon, dangling our legs from the work-truck tailgate. I realized for the first time
I was a full head taller. A slight breeze swirled the smells of ceramic porcelain, PVC pipe, and
glue in a dewy mist around our heads. He rocked back and forth slowly, balancing some invisible
message he wanted to convey.
“All this will be yours, Delia honey. “Look, I don’t know no internet and hell, I still do
bids and spreadsheets on paper. You’ll be running this show someday.” Allergy season didn’t
start those tears swelling in his narrow green eyes. I looked into them on either side of that skislope nose and in spite of all his flaws, I loved that guy. “When I’m gone, there’ll be opportunity
for a minority-owned business to really grow into something.”
“Wait, what do you mean, minority owned?”
“You know, female business owners. Grants, government contracts, such as that.”
I couldn’t bring myself to tell him right then that I might have other plans.
Brittany was my bestie since middle school and pretty and smart, like me. She was an
academic superstar up until we were juniors. Her creepy brother got an engineering scholarship
to the University of Florida. We talked about getting one to State and working together in
campus labs to find the cure for cancer, or AIDS, the common cold even. About the time Britt
met Kyle she started doing weed, then started doing Kyle, and all that’s a story for another time.
But it sure ended our talks about being famous doctors or scientists.

The Prize

4

Sometimes back then she’d go on service calls with Pops and me. He’d be under the
house and we’d be stationed inside, turning the water on or off when he called through the floor,
or tapping with a wrench so he could identify the right pipe. We’d look through people’s closets
and dresser drawers while he maneuvered around down there in the crawl space. He was getting
too old for all that hard work. While waiting for him to climb around the attic, we could learn a
lot about customers just by going through stuff in their medicine cabinet.

*
“Hell, we gotta know,” Britt said. We had a talent for sharing our enthusiasms and this
one had her really stoked. It was Spring Break of our junior year and we sat in the wicker chairs
on her back porch. A breeze disturbed the blonde strands hanging around her face like the
waving corn silk in a thousand planted acres backing up to her yard. “We gotta see who your real
parents are. Find out your real name, for fuck sake!” She could be a little rough. As we went
inside to the computer, I told her to put antibiotic ointment on that little red patch of skin, or her
parents would notice the nose-ring hole, for sure.
We sat in her dark, closed up bedroom and found lots of success stories on the internet
about people finding their biological parents. But in most cases, they started with way more
information than us. All we had was the Women’s Health Center and it closed down in 2008.
There were articles about banks failing back then, public funding drying up, and Women’s
Health dried up with it. The Center was a non-profit founded and run by Mrs. Hawthorne, who I
thought was mostly nuts when Pops and I did regular work on her rental properties.
“Let’s go talk to her,” was Britt’s bright idea. I hadn’t spoken to the old witch since her
husband died and their rental houses got foreclosed on. I think she still owes Pops some money.

The Prize

5

“Look right here.” Brittany’s pointing fingernail was pale blue in the computer screen light. She
scrolled half-way down and read from the article. “Eliza Hawthorne was instrumental in
fostering a relationship with regional adoption agencies.” She turned my way and the thrill of
mystery buzzed in the lit half of her face. “If anybody might know something about your real
parents, it’s her.” I had to agree but wished for more of a plan.
I’d see the Mrs. Hawthorne with the dogs in her front yard every day from the school bus
ride home. We put on our cool new Nikes and walked eleven blocks across town. There was this
huge budding maple tree across the street from her house. The ground was still cool and damp
even though weeks had passed since it sucked up the last melting snow. We sat on fat, protruding
tree roots, peeling open the fallen seed pods and sticking them on our faces like crazy noses.
Brittany puffed hard on her e-cig and tried to blow smoke rings, but the breeze wouldn’t
cooperate.
Mrs. Hawthorne came out in bathrobe and slippers about a half hour later. She didn’t see
us watching as we sucked up the courage to cross the street. Short lengths of nickel-colored hair
broke loose from bobby pins on one side of her head and fought the wind like tattered ends of a
pennant. White, yipping fuzz balls orbited her ankles like stuffed, mechanical toys on a tether.
We stepped through the wrought-iron gate, stuck open with rust, and took a few steps up the
flagstone walk.
Our movement made her turn toward us. One clouded, silver eye stared wide and round,
the other narrowed around the side of her face in a nervous squint. She watched as if we were
some kinda sci-fi creatures emerging from the mists of her mind. The dogs peeled off in barking
circles around our feet.

The Prize

6

“Hello, I’m Delia. McMurphy plumbing? Remember me?”
“Oh, yes child.” It took her a long moment to respond, and I could tell, she didn’t
remember.
“This is my friend, Brittany.” The old lady rolled back her shoulders. Her chin floated
upward.
“Charmed, I’m sure,” she said and extended one hand, bent down at the wrist in Britt’s
direction. Then Brittany, swear to God, took her hand by the fingers and dropped in this
awkward curtsy like on one of those lame, PBS shows. I always told her she played too much.
This was serious business for me.
It didn’t come out like I rehearsed it. I blurted out phrases about me being adopted, her
reputation for all the fine work at Women’s Health, and looking for information on biological
parents. Did she remember my parents going through the process? And so on, until Britt just
came out with it.
“So, do you know who her real parents are?”
“There are ethical concerns here,” Mrs. Hawthorne began. Her voice had changed with
her body language, as if someone else was speaking. She looked over the top of our heads as she
spoke, and sounded like the actress my parents watch on that classic movie channel. The woman
in all those movies with Tracy Spenser, the one with that guy on the African Queen. “But with
the demise of the Health Center, the passing of time,” her thought trailed off. “However when
you come next time, my recollection may improve with a pack of Marlboro Lights, perhaps a
bottle of white zinfandel.”

The Prize

7

“That ain’t happening,” Britt told her. “Don’t have a car, the money--,”
“And we’re sixteen.” I finished for her.
“Oh, I see.” She seemed to watch her wine request fade across the horizon. “Let’s sit
down and talk, girls.” I though she meant inside, but she bunched her robe in her lap and settled
right there, on the slate front steps.
She said she remembered Mom and Pops, after I described them at length, and the busy
times working with the agency. She moved her hands in the air in front of her, like trying to
conjure up her memory in a crystal ball. After the second time kicking away the poodle trying to
hump her leg, Britt jumped in to redirect the conversation.
“Do you remember who gave her up?” The words came out stark and hard and ended
with both of them looking at me. “Who brought her to you?” It took a moment for Mrs.
Hawthorne’s stare to thaw.
“Yes, I do. Probably because mixed couples were, shall I say, of a higher profile back
then, than they seem to be nowadays.” Her head turned and, as she focused again at some distant
point, it all came spilling out. “The name may have been Hamilton. Michael Hamilton, as I
recall. His family lived a few miles outside of town. He brought you to us, late in the fall, before
going back to med-school. In Topeka, I believe.” And that was it.
“Did you ever see him after that? Is there anything else you can tell us?”
“No. Only that I seem to recall some notoriety associated with that name. Something
related to a Pulitzer, maybe Nobel Prize.” The new lead made us anxious to hurry away. We

The Prize

8

stood, thanked her for her time, and had taken steps toward the gate when Britt turned back with
one more question.
“What did you mean, by, mixed couples?”
“Mixed as in the kind of folks who settled this town, with those who, shall I say, come
through to work the harvest.”
We were so excited we jogged most of the way until we were back in Britt’s dark
bedroom at the computer. It all started to make sense to me. I now had footsteps to follow,
maybe into a world-famous medical career.
We spent the better part of the next few days searching the internet. We found plenty of
Hamiltons, even doctors named Michael who schooled in Topeka, but none had anything to tie
them back here to Middleton. Not that me or Britt gave up easy. We ran up big charges on her
mom’s credit card, with full annual memberships to those sites like People Spotters, Family
Finders, and searching every combination of words we could imagine. We even checked out
online real-estate records but couldn’t get a good match going back a full ten years. I finally said
it.
“Maybe some things just can’t be found out.” Britt looked relieved. She slumped back in
the rolling desk chair.
“I know. Right?” She pooched out her lower lip and blew feathery strands of hair straight
up above her face.
After that, it came up in conversation now and then, but with our senior year coming up,
there were a lot of other things going on. Britt’s brother would live in a dorm and had to leave

The Prize

9

his truck behind that first year. She promised to take good care of it. She didn’t walk too many
places after he was gone.
Going into that year, I was near the top ten percent of my class and, with scholarship in
mind, I worked to get there. Britt probably would have too, but there were those other
distractions I told you about. First semester, she got suspended for repeated dress-code
violations. She coulda come back but refused to conform, in honor of strong women and
spaghetti-strap tops everywhere. Britt dropped out and got a cashier job at the Quik Check. It
wasn’t like the old days, but we still hung out together sometimes.
That’s where I was that Christmas Break, standing in Britt’s checkout line when I sensed
something creeping up on my left shoulder. I caught a whiff like the mothballs people keep in
old vanity cabinets and jumped when I turned to look. We hadn’t seen Mrs. Hawthorne since that
conversation on her front steps. But there she was, leaning in so close and strange I almost
dropped my Arizona Iced Tea. She looked from me to Britt and back again, and a memory
peeked from somewhere behind those crooked, arched eyebrows.
“Cameron,” she said. The thin, pale lips quivered before she spoke again. “Michael
Cameron was the name. The man who brought you in to the Center. Seeing you girls here
together, it just came to me.” The secret mission was on again. When Britt’s shift was up we
were back at her house, googling new leads as fast as we could think to type them in. We found a
tax record with a local address, but all we found out there was an old, shut down factory with No
Trespassing and For Sale signs wired to the chain-link fence.
We found a break online with an old post office box listed for a Michael F. Cameron,
M.D. in our zip code. The age information seemed about right. Also listed for him was an

The Prize

10

apartment in Topeka and a business address in Orlando. We were pumped, finding the phone
listing in a Florida area code. Not so much when the number we dialed was not in service. A new
people-search site came up with a different number to try.
“This is Michael.” The voice sounded tired, worn out. “Please leave a message at the
tone.” But the voice-mail box was full then, and again the dozens of times I called, every time I
thought about it. It was early March when he picked up the phone.
“Hullo?” he said. I’d practiced in my mind so many different ways that words came out
mixed together, all around the question I hadn’t asked. I stopped and took a deep breath.
“Are you there Dr. Cameron?”
“Yes.” My blabbing hadn’t scared him off yet and I thought it might be best to just come
out with it.
“I’m looking for my real father and think you may be him.” The conversation took off
from there, his tone of voice changing from sleepy to almost excited. He’d always wondered
about me and hoped we’d meet up someday. ‘Dream of a lifetime’ is how he put it. When he
asked if we could get together and visit, I realized that somehow, I hadn’t thought that far ahead.
“Do you ever get back here to Middleton?”
“No.” A long pause. “Currently, there are some issues, some business matters that
prevent me from leaving Florida. But, next time you get down to the Gulf Coast, please know
you have an open invitation. Just call ahead when you get close.”
Showing Brittany the address he gave me was all it took to get a plan together. Our
Spring Break was five days away. Britt’s mother was moved, teared up at her thoughtful

The Prize

11

daughter’s wish to take me along to visit her brother at the U. of F. “We’ll surprise him,” Britt
said. Her mother even came up with some money and baked goods to take with us. The college
brochures my Mom brought home helped convinced Pops it wasn’t too late for me to visit a good
campus.
I’d never been that far south before, or out of the state, even. Those days before we left,
we drove around town, tracking places we knew until we were comfortable with our smart-phone
GPS. Most exciting was tapping in the directions and seeing our route mapped out from
Middleton all the way to that street number on South Tamiami Trail.
The highway looked pretty much the same through the rectangular states, and most of the
way on east I-10 until we made that last big turn south. After our first sleepless motel experience;
car doors slamming, loud talking, and ice machines clattering, we didn’t want to spend another
night on the road. We took turns driving while the other pulled up online images: palm trees and
dolphins, clear green waves on white sand beaches, sunshine and bikinis. I was at the wheel
when Britt was searching web news about doctors in Florida.
“Damn, girl! You might be rich and not know it! He must have made it big in
prescription drug manufacturing.”
“What are you talking about?” I couldn’t read her phone screen from the driver’s seat.
“It says here he’s connected with one of the biggest pill mills in the state. Start thinking
ocean-side mansions and limos.”
I told her then like I’d say it now. I just wanted to meet him face-to-face. Not long after
that, during a restroom stop, I made the call.

The Prize

12

“Hullo?” Like the first time, it sounded like I woke him up.
“Dr. Cameron, this is Delia. You said call when we get close. We’re about twenty miles
from you at a Wawa in Tampa.” I don’t know if I’ve ever been so nervous, those two times on
the phone, waiting through those long pauses, not knowing what he would say next. I angled the
phone off my ear so Britt could hear.
“That’s, uh, awesome girl. Stay on that road. It brings you right here. The main gate will
be closed by now.” Eyes wide and leaning toward me, Britt silently mouthed the words, Main
Gate! “So, go past it and turn into the service entrance. I’m in unit 13A.”
We counted down the street numbers, getting closer and closer, and sitting at a stop light,
realized we had arrived. The whole block was one address, the one I had written down. The long,
white wall in front of the place was all covered up in flowery bushes. A wide sign lit up above
the locked front gate read ‘Tropical Safari,’ in big, colored cartoon letters.
Gravel sounded under the tires as we turned down the service road. There was just
enough light to make out the buildings. I guess they’d be called mobile homes, because most had
wheels. But, with all the attached, closed-in porches and vine-covered patios, it didn’t look like
they’d be rolling anywhere, anytime soon. The evening air carried the scent of hay and manure
and peanut shells. On the other of the lane, noises from the tall canvas-covered frames suggested
large, moving things inside.
Among the row of white mailbox poles we found the right number. Blue television light
flickered beyond the window in one end of 13A. We sat in the parked truck for several minutes
looking at each other. I felt there had been some mistake. I just couldn’t explain why.

The Prize

13

“We going in, or what?” Britt asked. I was too slow to answer, I guess. She had the door
open and was up to the trailer, about to knock, before I shook some sense into myself and
followed. The door opened and a wedge of light cast Britt in silhouette and me in shadow.
“Oh my freakin’ God!” The man’s mouth hung open with both hands up to his head, like
the guy shouting in that famous European abstract painting. He reached out to hug her. “You
look just like your mother!”
“Hey, I’m Brittany.” She stuck out a hand to shake. My footsteps crunched in the shell
path behind her. “She’s Delia.”
“Oh, yeah. Wow.” His shirt, unbuttoned to the waist, was printed in a pattern of exotic
birds and palm leaves. Stitched in sunshine gold above the pocket were letters that spelled
‘Mike.’ “Well, you too, babe.” He shook my hand, too. “Come in, come in. I want to hear
everything about you.”
The narrow room smelled of weed and beer and gym socks. He turned on a table lamp.
There were piles of papers with lawyers’ letterheads on the sofa. He shuffled them together and
motioned for us to sit. I was still nervous and talked quickly about how we found him and our
trip to get there, trying to get around to questions I wanted to ask.
There was an overturned plastic crate as a coffee table between us. He lifted a half joint
from the ashtray and, along with a plastic lighter, offered in our direction. Only Britt’s face lit up
at first, though and, when I cut my eyes hard at her, she got the message right away.
“We don’t smoke,” I said. He dropped his head and returned the items to the makeshift
table. He didn’t need any more. It was clear he was already baked.

The Prize

14

“That’s a good thing, I guess.” He had this nervous way of looking off after each time he
spoke, as if some unpredictable game-changer could arrive at any moment.
“We thought you were a doctor.” That’s how direct Britt talked to people. “That’s what
Delia wants to be.”
“Well, I,” he took a long pull from a tall beer can. “I am. Will be, once my license is
reinstated. Specializing in pain management.”
“So, what are you doing here? Tropical Safari?”
“Ensuring the animals are properly medicated.” His head snapped toward us. “Say, where
are my manners? Would you all like a beer?”
“Don’t drink either and--,” I began.
“Dude, we’re seventeen,” Britt finished. Right there was when he started crying. I don’t
mean teardrop-running-down-the-cheek crying. Closer to toddler in a grocery cart bawling. It
was so weird we stood and might have bolted, but he caught himself, waved his hands in the air,
and pointed for us to sit back down.
“I was almost seventeen when I met your mother.” He sat on that wooden stool with his
hands covering his eyes for the next five minutes and told us. After school, he worked part-time
for his dad, doing inventory at that plant we saw shut down outside of town. Her family came up
for temporary jobs early each year, staying in quarters on the factory compound, before time
came to move on for prime farm work up north.
One quiet, late night in December, they came through on the return trip. “I was studying
when a rap on my bedroom window damn near scared the shit of me.” Her brother was waving

The Prize

15

him out to the van at the end of the driveway. She was in the passenger seat, holding a Minnesota
Vikings blanket in her arms. “She had sent notes in the mail, and I wrote back one time. But
honest to God, I don’t think I ever let on anything about getting married.” When the van pulled
away, it left him holding a purple bundle of me.
“I was always a Bears fan,” he said. “Anyway, maybe I can find one of her letters for
when you get up in the morning.” There was a quiet moment where Britt and I didn’t need to
look at each other to know we were thinking the same thing.
“We have to be going,” I said.
“You’re welcome to stay here. You girls take the bedroom.” He pointed down the short
hall where a pile of sheets lay on a gray, unmade mattress. “Won’t be the first time I slept on this
old couch.”
“My brother is expecting us later this evening,” Britt lied, and the silence hung heavy
enough to answer any further questions.
Walking us out to the truck, he kept spilling details he could remember. That’s when he
said my mother’s name and that, last he knew, they kept a family home in the Rio Grande
Valley. He’d send the address when he found it. “Boxes in there I haven’t looked at since I
landed here.” He hugged us both.
Britt had started the engine and dropped the truck in gear when he yelled, “Wait,” and
slapped the back of the cab. I put the window down. “Listen Delia, you can be anything you
want. It’s all in front and you don’t have to end up like this.” He pointed directly over his
shoulder as if some unseen mass of troubles lay piled nearby in the dark. “I tried too hard to be
as big a success as my Father.” His tone made me think he might start crying again.

The Prize

16

“What’d he do? Britt asked. In the light from the dashboard, his face lit up when he
realized we didn’t know.
“He retooled the old plastics factory to make lawn and patio furniture out of PVC pipe.
Brought jobs and big investment money back to town. The Ledger Herald wrote that Middleton
ought to nominate him for the Nobel Prize in Economics.”
Britt’s foot slipped on the brake pedal, probably on purpose, and the truck eased forward.
He pushed himself upright from the door with both hands. “Keep in touch. When I get a cell
phone I’ll call you.” We drove ten blocks toward nowhere in silence.

*
Things work out. Not always like you thought, but they do. We made the story to our
parents right by driving most of the night to her brother’s campus. We slept in the truck and saw
him in the morning. He was surprised, of course, and upbeat until he freaked out over the decals
on the truck windows and fuzzy trim Britt glued to the steering column. He got over it, though.
As we left he hugged us both and wet-kissed my ear.
In the almost four years since then, Britt got her GED and is working toward her Dental
Assistant Certification. They started calling our community college a university and I saw her a
lot on campus, finishing up my business degree. I’m taking online classes for my MBA.
That’s where I looked into Chapter 11. I hadn’t known how bad the recession hit Pops’
business, but, reorganization seems to be working out. He’s supervising three crews now and
almost always home every day well before dark. We’re done worrying about him pushing water
heaters up flights of stairs. We hope he’s squeezed that big belly through his last crawl space.

The Prize

17

The desk is in the middle of my office. The office is in the middle of the block, the
middle of town, like I told you before. But, in the middle of the corkboard behind me is a photo
from the Ledger Herald of us being awarded the Chamber of Commerce Trophy. The caption
reads “New Small Business of the Year.” I’m in the middle as president of Ortega-McMurphy
Plumbing, LLC. Mom looks happy as ever on my left. Pops is on the other side, wearing that
goofy grin, holding the prize.

***

The Prize


