Connor Moore was the most famous man in the world, for he was its savior.
His final day on the planet he saved was a Tuesday of no particular importance to anyone
but him. It was exactly 35 years and 142 days since he deflected the asteroid known as “C-137”
away from Earth and toward its eventual target.
Connor woke up on that Tuesday at noon, which had become a common occurrence. He
had spent the previous night drinking his favorite stout and eating instant potatoes, even though
he could eat at the most expensive restaurant in the world for free. Sometimes he even received
tips for his service to the planet. No matter what he ever wanted, he had gotten it for free for the
past 35 years and 142 days. That included his secluded house on Cuttyhunk Island in Cape Cod,
away from the mainland where he couldn’t step outside without being swarmed by the grateful
masses. He also chose the spot because it was the nearest point of land to where the asteroid was
supposed to hit and end life on the planet. He never wanted to forget.
Connor had saved the planet on a Sunday. His plan was the only realistic one that
completely eliminated the potential of any loss of life on Earth.
C-137 was three times the size of the asteroid that killed the dinosaurs and entered a
collision course with Earth without much warning. By the time it was discovered, NASA
determined it would arrive in six months. Scientists had been preparing for such a possibility for
decades, spending all the allowed budget money for the program on a laser that could be sent
into space to vaporize any asteroid up to the size of the moon.
“Project Death Star” was the plan’s name, and required a launch into space to be
successful. With four months to spare until C-137’s arrival, the laser was set for launch. Connor

2

Immolation

watched the shuttle explode on the launchpad within two seconds of being declared ready for
liftoff.
Connor remained in his house for the next week while the world went into a panic. The
only thing keeping any sense of order was NASA’s open call for new plans to redirect or destroy
C-137.
Connor was never anything special before his plan went viral. He was one of the ten
smartest people in the entire world but spent his days working at a gas station after his brief stint
as a mechanical engineer ended abruptly when he threw a chair at his co-worker, Dale, who kept
hitting “reply all” in every email.
The gas station job didn’t bother Connor, as it gave him time to think through his
inventions with minimal stress at work except for the occasional bag of change handed over the
counter in lieu of cash or card.
Connor stopped showing up for work once the shuttle blew up. He saw all the looting
taking place on television and didn’t want to die defending overpriced gum and beer. He had
enough saved up in case life went on, although he had no idea how useless his savings would
become in a matter of weeks.
The internet became filled with countless plans to destroy the asteroid that included
blowing it up with nuclear weapons. It seemed to be the only option, even with the risk of the
weapon going off before it left Earth and causing a mass extinction before C-137 got its turn.
There was also the problem of the lack of nuclear weapons, which were discontinued
when Connor was just a child. With just four months before the world was supposed to end, there
just wasn’t enough time to make something strong enough to destroy the asteroid far enough

3

Immolation

away from Earth. Connor knew that but he could see the plans were trending that way with no
other alternative, except for his plan.

People around the world could never figure out why Connor hated the spotlight and the
praise. He had only done one interview since saving the planet and was otherwise left alone,
thanks to the security detail he received from the government. Everything he ever wanted was
brought to his island home and he spent his days doing countless equations hoping to clear his
mind. But they always came to the same conclusion, which led to alcohol binges that sometimes
lasted more than a month.
Connor’s only interview was a short one that he requested after C-137’s new target was
revealed. He planned to do an hour but walked off after five minutes. All he could say was that
he was sorry.
There was only one group in the world who hated Connor, and its total membership was
just around two million. He knew they were right. The Right For All Life coalition cared about
all known life in the universe, not just that on Earth, and the target of their anger was Connor
Moore.
The RFAL was led by a former NASA employee who leaked the information that C-137
was headed for a planet harboring life. It was set to strike exactly 35 years and 142 days after the
day people began celebrating as Connor Moore Day. At first, NASA combatted the leak by
saying it was just speculated that this new planet was harboring life, and even if it was it was
nowhere near advanced as life on Earth.

4

Immolation

Connor spent years trying to find any hope that the planet would be spared, but his
equations always came out the same. The planet, dubbed “Immolation” by the RFAL, was going
to go through its orbit and run right into C-137. He kept running his equations hoping for some
semblance of hope that there was a chance he was wrong, but it was no use.
The RFAL stressed that Earth could have suffered the same fate as Immolation, if not for
Connor the Destroyer, as they liked to call him. The rest of the public ignored the RFAL and
deemed them nihilist extremists. But Connor knew they were right.

Connor found out about Immolation about five minutes after C-137 was redirected away
from Earth.
“Connor, I have to tell you something because this information may come out in the
future but I want you to hear it from me,” said Evan Diehl, the lead scientist on Connor’s
mission.
“Is something wrong?” asked Connor in shock. He knew his plan would work as long as
no one interfered with his exact instructions.
Evan leaned in closer to Connor. “That asteroid is headed straight for a planet harboring
life. And I’m not just talking microscopic life, I mean living, breathing creatures.”
“How can you be sure?” asked Connor. “The odds of that asteroid hitting that exact
planet aren’t even fathomable.”
“It was going to hit us. What were those odds?”
Connor was told that NASA had a tough time agreeing to his plan, which is why it was
delayed for two months. The satellites used to redirect C-137 could only be launched at a specific

5

Immolation

time to meet up with the asteroid at the right time. Calculations had been done for months, but
each one showed that Immolation would be awaiting certain destruction. It was the only other
planet NASA knew of that harbored life.
Evan Diehl was not the one who leaked the information, but he resigned from NASA
shortly after the world was saved and Connor became a hero. Several others at NASA did the
same, and Connor assumed they also knew of the destruction awaiting an innocent planet.
Further research into life on Immolation was officially discontinued once the information
about its demise leaked, but the RFAL gathered enough to give Connor insomnia. The bulk of the
information claimed that the planet had vast oceans filled with countless life forms, which was
proven by a secret NASA probe sent out decades ago. It had sent back pictures from the planet,
but no one on Earth seemed to care. Connor saw people arguing online about politics and sports,
completely ignoring concrete evidence of alien life. He began to wonder whether he was the
crazy one for caring about other life in the universe.
What put Connor over the edge was the information given to him on his final Connor
Moore Day on Earth. He had a private email account as his only connection to the outside world,
with only a select few knowing how to reach him. The message from Evan Diehl was the last one
he ever read before destroying his computer.
It read:
Connor,
I would say I hope you’re doing well but I know you’re not. Neither am I. I sit up every night
thinking about what we did, even though it was me who signed off on the final decision. How
were you supposed to know? Anyway, I wanted to share some information I received with you

6

Immolation

because I don’t want it to reach you from another source. It turns out life on Immolation, (oh how
I hate that name), is not just confined to its oceans. The probe we sent years ago is still sending
pictures back and there are early signs of intelligent life. We have not got a good look at what
these beings look like, but there are small structures on the land that indicate life on the planet is
advancing as it did on Earth. I hate that I have to share this information, but if the RFAL leaked
it before I could tell you I would never forgive myself. There are still 142 days before the asteroid
makes impact. Perhaps our calculations are wrong. But we know they aren’t. Take care of
yourself, please.
Best,
Evan

Connor spent 100 days rarely leaving his room after receiving Evan’s email. He
occasionally ran through equations but knew it would take a cosmic miracle for something to
change. He received his food by delivery from those assigned to him by the government, but he
never got to know their names. He was so preoccupied with the life forms he never met, he lost
all notice of life on Earth.
Connor was just 25 years old when his plan was adopted by NASA. It was his face at that
age that adorned everything from shirts to plates to corn mazes all over the world. He had been
seen a few times in public since then, but he had not been seen smiling since he first emerged as
the hero of the world. Artists tried to depict what 60-year-old Connor looked like, but all the
depictions were far too generous. The bags under his brown eyes looked to be stressing under the
weight, creating crescents under his eyes that were impossible to not notice. His hair went from

7

Immolation

jet black to gray and wispy, often uncombed and unwashed for weeks at a time. He even had a
slight paunch after years of staying inside and only getting up to walk to grab his food and some
beer, unable to recognize who he had become.

Unbeknownst to Connor and everyone else on Earth, life was quite advanced on
Immolation. It began around the same time as life did on Earth, but Immolation was spared
major extinction level events. The vast seas on the planet were similar in composition to those on
Earth, except large traces of methane were found in the water. Not a single mobile life form
emerged from the seas until around the time dinosaurs were wiped out on Earth. It took a brave
step from a tiny turquoise creature with one slit on its face for an eye to emerge and realize it
could breathe in the atmosphere. There were food sources all around the shore, and winds carried
seeds across the planet to create food for the brave souls willing to emerge from the methane
seas.
On the day of Connor’s death, life on Immolation was thriving. Languages were
developed and civility was in order. The best minds on the planet were set to launch a massive
vessel into space that could bring back proof of other life in the universe.
To someone from Earth, the leading species on Immolation resembled manatees with
arms, legs and larger eyes. They communicated telekinetically, creating a quiet, peaceful
landscape on the planet with a bright blue sky and lush forests covering most of the dry land.
There had never been a war on Immolation as there were no conflicts or power struggles. The
constant goal was to reach into the vastness of space to find other life. No one ever considered
the idea of doing anything else.

8

Immolation

Immolation’s fatal flaw was its best minds focusing on the wonder of the universe instead
of its dangers. The most advanced species on the planet had spent ten thousand years working on
the most efficient way to send a long-term vessel into space. Countless generations lived and
died with the hope that the next one would be the one to reach space, without realizing all the
dangers to be found off the planet.
Unlike Earth, Immolation was not near any collection of asteroids. A comet never passed
by and there were no moons. The sky had just one star, which was the planet’s sun. All the others
weren’t visible, as there was no night on the planet. It took generations for those on Immolation
to fathom life outside the planet. They had no concept of the vastness of space, but were driven
by a subconscious desire to seek out any evidence of other life or to find out why there were
alive in the first place.

Connor spent the final hours of his life inside. The floor was covered with paper
displaying the exact same equation with the exact same solution every time. He still had a
television in his house and turned it on to see the coverage of a RFAL protest in Washington D.C.
They had signs with grainy pictures of life on Immolation held high as men and women walked
by without a glance on their way to work. One protestor was interviewed by the news crew.
“I want to say something to Connor Moore,” said a woman born ten years after Connor
saved his world. “You don’t deserve to live when all those beings on Immolation are about to
die.”
“So you’re saying you’d rather have Earth destroyed?” asked the reporter.

9

Immolation

“No,” said the woman. “There is just no reason why Connor and NASA had to redirect
the asteroid right into the only other planet with life. They are hiding knowledge from us and
trying to spin this destruction as some cosmic coincidence.”
“Do you even know the name of the asteroid?” asked the reporter in a sarcastic tone.
“That doesn’t matter,” said the woman. “It won’t even exist anymore in a few hours.”
Connor turned off the television and poured himself a beer. Some of it got on his shirt
but he didn’t seem to mind. The stain joined the others on the shirt he had been wearing for over
a week. His food delivery was waiting in a box right inside his front door but he didn’t bother to
grab it. He sat down to do one final equation, but not on the asteroid’s current track. He went
back to the one that made him famous.
Connor’s world-saving redirection plan involved rerouting two major satellites to collide
with C-137. They were propelled out into space at an exact rate to meet up with the asteroid and
redirect it just enough to avoid a collision with Earth. The day the plan was set in action was just
two days before C-137 would have come close enough to where redirecting it may put the
Earth’s moon in jeopardy.
The equation Connor was going over in his beer-stained shirt was the one that saved the
planet. But he wanted to see if he could have indeed waited longer to propel the satellites and if
NASA’s theory about the moon could have been wrong. He started to work when he heard the
doorbell ring. He hadn’t heard that sound in years, as the deliveries were always done without
any commotion. He got up and went to the door and was greeted by one of the security guards
whose name Connor did not know.
“A letter, sir,” said the man before handing Connor a piece of paper and walking away.

10

Immolation

Connor took the paper in his hands and began reading. It was from Evan.
Connor,
I take it you smashed your computer or something like that as you haven’t responded lately.
That’s fine, I prefer the old way of communicating. I’m also pretty sure our communication was
bugged, so I wanted to share some information with you that no one else could spy on. I knew
about the advanced life on Immolation far before the RFAL did. In fact, I was on the team that
discovered the life there. They are currently building a space shuttle twenty times the size of the
largest one ever built here on Earth. I don’t know what their intentions are but they are close
enough to Earth to where it’s possible they may know there is life on our planet. That’s why I was
tasked with ensuring C-137 could wipe out life on Immolation. My team discovered life on
Immolation about two months before C-137 came on course with Earth. Once that happened we
had to ditch all exploration of the planet. Then the laser blew up and all of NASA was tasked
with the single goal of keeping Earth alive. Then you came along with your plan. Such a perfect
storm! I hate to have lied to you for all these years, but that plan was ready to go as soon as you
brought it to us. The only reason we waited was because I was ordered to make sure that asteroid
could be sent right toward Immolation. After such a harrowing event, we didn’t need to throw in
a potential war with aliens. Didn’t you find it odd that we waited to execute your plan for several
months when failure meant all life on Earth would be destroyed? The moon was never in danger.
I made that up and gave you false equations to work with.
There was more in the letter but Connor crumpled it up instead of reading the rest. He felt
his heart racing. After nearly 36 years, he realized he was not in fact Connor the Destroyer. He
was merely a puppet in the destroyer’s hands. He ran to his room to put on some clean clothes.

11

Immolation

Once he did that and put some water in his hair, he ran outside to the same security guard who
brought him the letter.
“I need you to take me to the nearest news station.”

The most advanced species on Immolation had no name. They just were. All two billion
of these creatures were tuned to screens on the day their space vessel was set to launch. Someone
from Earth would assume no one was concerned about the event, as the planet was nearly silent.
But that didn’t mean there wasn’t noise in the heads of the creatures.
Countless thoughts went from brain to brain about the fears of launching into the sky.
Some thought it led to nowhere, while others were worried about destroying the sky and cracking
it into pieces.
Five lucky individuals were chosen to ride in the vessel. They were the five smartest
individuals on the planet and were tasked with guiding the ship through whatever was out there,
looking for any other signs of anything.
Even with all the fear and anticipation, the overwhelming feeling was excitement. This
moment was in honor of all those who lived and died making it a possibility. If these creatures
could cry, many would have.
In Earth time, there were five minutes to go before the vessel launched into space.
Elsewhere in the galaxy at the exact same time, Connor was in a car with the security
guard who had brought him the letter. It was his first time on the island roads in years, and he
remembered why he loved the area so much. He saw families on the beaches laughing and
splashing in the ocean water, something Connor was never able to do in the past 35 years. He

12

Immolation

drifted off in his thoughts when he was jolted forward by a car colliding with the one he was in.
The security guard put the car in park while Connor opened his door and stepped out. He got out
and saw Evan Diehl, gray-haired and clad in RFAL insignias.
“I’m assuming you read my letter,” said Evan with a smirk on his face.
“What the hell is going on?” asked Connor. “Have you been with the RFAL this whole
time?”
“What? Oh, all this? No I’m just wearing this in case there are any witnesses.”
Evan pulled out a gun and pointed it straight at Connor. Connor looked for his bodyguard
and saw him sitting in the front seat of the car as if nothing had happened. He knew it was over.
“I’m sorry I have to do this, but I can’t have you go off sharing government secrets. You
should have just stayed inside.”
“You don’t need to kill me. I can just go back and be quiet.”
“That is true, but killing you serves a greater purpose. The headlines will be great. You
were murdered by the RFAL. You’re a martyr. They’re a terrorist organization. Problem solved.”
Evan pointed the gun at Connor’s stomach and fired. Connor didn’t feel any pain as he
fell to the ground. He just saw his shirt turn red and began to feel as if he was in a dream.
“You served your planet well,” Connor heard Evan say as he took his final breaths.
Connor Moore, the man who billions worshipped, died violently at the hands of the RFAL, or at
least that’s what the news reports said after his body was found floating in the sea.
Across the galaxy on the planet dubbed “Immolation” by a terrorist organization, so the
reports would say, an entire planet was awaiting the most important moment in billions of years.
Every member of the dominant species, which would never have a name, stared at screens as the

13

Immolation

vessel to discover meaning was set to launch. The vessel cleared to launch when every screen on
the planet went dark. Not a sound was made but voices rang out in the heads of confused
individuals who were wondering how this could happen. Then the ground began to shake and for
the first time in billions of years, the sky went dark.
No one made a sound.


