It was late afternoon, and extremely loud inside his beach house. His girlfriend and her friends
had started drinking early in the morning, and were obviously not accustomed to it, like he was.
He felt like throwing them out, well at least outside. The only time they ever went outside was to
get something from their cars, or late at night when they would commiserate together on the
front porch. He couldn't understand how people could stay here, and never go anywhere near
the beach or outside during the day. Instead, he decided to let the day, run its course, knowing
that a majority of them would eventually pass out. Resulting in them to swear tomorrow what a
wonderful time they had, which included drinking all the alcohol in the house. Including the
vodka that was hidden under the kitchen-sink cabinet behind the cold-water supply pipe.
Her friends were more expensive to keep hydrated than fed, and he was convinced whatever
they did eat lined the toilet a half-hour later, thus making more room for the alcohol, and their
numerous pills. Collectively, their purses were a traveling pharmacy, and all their designer drugs
carried a minimum seven refills, refillable at those chain store pharmacies; they never enjoyed
shopping, or being seen in. However, it was summer, and he loved this place. Unfortunately, he
had no intention of turning his beach house into a year-round abode that would diminish its
seasonal value. Especially, that solitary week in early August when he stayed by himself, or
what his girlfriend enjoyed calling weekend to weekend. He needed some time alone, so he put
his sandals on and decided to go out for a walk, knowing his destination would be an isolated
stretch of beach over the berm. Walking past his driveway, which was designed to
accommodate two cars, but for this weekend the cars were parked out on the road. All the
vehicles had vanity plates, and some of the owners had vanity marriages designed to last a
minimum of five to seven years, and then end in ugly legal proceedings. He walked over the
berm to his favorite location and sitting down, he smiled. The view was magnificent, and on the
horizon a lone sailboat appeared and disappeared for him, depending on how long he looked at

1

it. He was alone and started to go through his usual beach routine, which included
synchronizing his breathing to the ocean waves, closing his eyes, and feeling his heart rate
lowering. For anyone longing for a flawless beach scene, this was the perfect place - a mirage.
He felt like it was his hidden treasure that he did not own, but enjoyed immensely. Removing his
sandals, he lowered his arms so that his fingers could dig into the warm, dry, coarse sand;
Sticking his fingers down into it like some exploring probe. His fingers feeling the only limitation
they had were his imagination. He thought someday; they would extend down forever. Stopping,
he raised two fistfuls of sand over his head, and waited for an ocean breeze to release the sand
into the air, knowing it would never return to the exact place of its excavation. A breeze, then
lifted his hair. He was relaxed, calm, and content, but knew he would not fall asleep. Wondering
why do people fall into sleep, it's not like it's an accident. Not knowing why he opened his eyes
and to his right, about three hundred feet away someone was walking down the berm.
Realizing, this place wasn't as secluded as he once thought. Some guy was walking at a middle
age pace and stopped abruptly, throwing his sandals in the water while lowering his back in one
seamless motion, as if it contained no bones or constraints, and ripped his tee-shirt off
disregarding it to the ocean breezes. He wondered, who was this guy and what was he doing
here. This guy didn't appear to be deranged, angry, or any harm to himself, possibly somebody's
weekend guest, who got loose. He didn't know what to do, so he just sat there, and watched
deciding to give this guy a name; The Ripper, because of what he did with his tee shirt. This
Ripper approached the wave line, as if taking measurements with his feet, marking the sand
above where the waves were encroaching, stopping occasionally to stare up at the sun. What
was he doing, and why was he doing it? He stood up to get a better view; The Ripper frantically
erased all his marks, then let out a primeval yell to accent the error of his calculations, stepping
back, he placed a set of marks, pacing wildly back and forth from the oncoming waves, as if
timing their arrival and departure.The Ripper turned and waved, son of a bitch. The Ripper knew

2

he was being watched the whole time, and that didn't stop him from laying himself down in the
sand in accordance with his marks. His feet were by the water so that the next ensuing wave,
made it slightly above the top of his waist. The waves came and went. A long strand of seaweed
had settled on The Ripper's chest, he flipped it in the air. At certain times, The Ripper extended
out his arms and legs resembling a starfish, or a beached snow angel. Lying there motionless,
and with each wave coming closer to being covered, as if the waves were some approaching
water blanket, providing some type of protection. The Ripper was still there, but for how long
could he continue whatever this was? , and with each wave, there was a raising of the water
blanket. He strained to see if the head was submerged. What brought The Ripper to
this point, smiling, he knew why he came here through the years to this special place. He stood
up. The Ripper was under water an excessive amount of time, and how was he breathing?.
Maybe using a small bamboo rod or tube, that had to be it. Laying there in the water with it
inserted into his mouth, very ingenious. This new-found explanation did not last long; The
Ripper wasn't holding anything when he arrived, and more disturbing nothing was sticking out
of the water. He ran, and searched in the water, but all he saw was a distorted reflection of his
own face. He knew his eyes were playing tricks on him .He remembered his childhood at the
beach standing ankle-deep in the water , digging his toes through the sand believing his toes
were anchors preventing him from being taken away .His childhood flash back did not last very
long.He remembered, The Ripper had sandals, and a tee shirt that he disregarded before this
all began. He searched the water for anything floating, wondering, why did the water feel like it
had no temperature to it? He flinched because something had touched his ankle, now he knew
he was in the correct spot, thankfully.Bending down , and with his hands, he searched for some
type of body part under the water . He screamed, having grabbed a handful of seaweed and
threw it in the air, never realizing it was on his back. He became frantic beating his hands and
swinging them through the incoming waves. He was screaming. Where are you? , where did

3

you go? , his searching placed him further away from the shoreline, then intended. His
waterfront retreat was not secluded, and never was for any time. The berm was an ease-way to
the beach, and he did not see the four teenagers that were standing by the railing on top of the
berm looking down on him. Two boys and two girls, one boy with short hair and a deep tan, a
perfect candidate to live within a beach house of his own someday was standing behind a girl
with long blond hair, while the brunette girl who was wearing shorts that were too short with a
tank top that was nowhere near the top, stood off to the side, mesmerized by her cell phone.
They were watching him, and he started waving frantically at them, yelling call the police, call
the police, hurry. It's an emergency. The boy with the short hair laughed, asking how crazy do
you think that guy is. While the other boy answered with his own question; how high do you
think that guy really is? , because it must be some ass-kicking stuff the way, he's acting down
there. The brunette rolled her shoulders and continued clicking away on her cell phone. The
short-haired boy continued his commentary, saying look he's been out in the sun too long, and
lost something, like his mind. Laughing, the other boy said maybe it was the guy's first time at a
beach. The girl with the blond hair turned and yelled at them. I think that's Mister? , what's his
name, my father knows him. He owns that house we just passed by with all those cars parked
outside it. Go there, help him, he needs help. The long-haired boy started laughing saying look
at the seaweed on his back, doesn't he resemble an angry sea monster splashing around in the
water. The brunette attempted to take a picture on her phone, but was distracted by an urgent
text message from somebody, and never took the picture. All everybody knew was that the girl
with the long blond hair was always the voice of reason. She continued looking over the water,
while clutching the weathered wooden handrail on top of the berm, that rattled whenever it was
touched by human hands. That girl was convinced, her father knew the man who was now
frantically swimming towards a distant sailboat out on the horizon. Her friends were off the
berm, and yelling for her to join them in the season-ending party, at that bar where their

4

fake I.D. 's were working perfectly this summer. She thought. He must be an excellent swimmer
in order to reach that sail boat all the way out there, but it appears; he has the situation under
control, and knows what he is doing, maybe in hindsight, he should have anchored his sail boat
closer to the shore, and then she ran off the berm to rejoin her friends.If she had the time, and
looked, she would have seen a worn and tattered sandal entwined with some seaweed around
its sole, still bobbing around effortlessly with nowhere to go, waiting. An ensuing wave would
eventually take it under to its destination, while a lone sailboat traveled through the horizon in
the late-afternoon sun.

5


