When I first met Hazel, down by the water in Discovery Park, I felt a familiarity.
Like seeing someone you’ve forgotten. The way she walked towards me made me think
of another woman; the one who left the summer before my tenth birthday.
“You must be Amy.” Hazel’s handshake was firm and her skin was milky in the
overcast light of Thursday’s late afternoon. She smiled warmly.
“It’s nice to meet you.” I found it hard to look straight at her. Her eyes were like
the water of the sound, capped with white, and I feared something recognizable might
surface at any moment; something too much my mother to deny the resemblance.
Hazel was an aspiring model and her husband, a wealthy businessman, who had
hired me to do some photography in the past, had asked me to take some photos of Hazel
as a personal favor to him. As uncomfortable as I was, I needed the money. I had never
been at ease with people as my subject matter. I preferred still-life’s or landscapes. I
preferred conifers and ocean waves to misplaced strands of hair and fake smiles. People
were too unpredictable for me. I gravitated towards certainty in spite of my creative
tendencies. I enjoyed having the only perspective on my work be my own. After all, a
snowcapped mountain range was much less likely to complain about the way light fell
over its face than a high school senior was. So, that afternoon, as I began snapping shots
of Hazel, I found myself holding my breath, preparing myself for the worst.
We spent that afternoon teetering on boulders and slick logs. I did my best to
look for her best angles. I tried to view her as I would any other subject and find her
strengths. Hazel smiled easily and I found myself telling stories about eccentric clients
and detailing the way I like my tea: black with a drizzle of agave, a squeeze of orange.

She listened and laughed at all the right places and when she sat facing me, knees folded
like an Indian chief, the gap between her front teeth and the way her sandy hair blew
between her lips left me longing for something. It wasn’t sexual. Of that I was sure. Yet
there was something within her that made me feel desperation. So I asked if she’d ever
like to grab coffee or catch a movie sometime. Hazel’s mannerisms disintegrated my
usual reserve and I chided myself for being so open, for making the first move of
friendship. The five seconds before her reply seemed to stretch themselves long and thin
like overworked silly putty. Yet after she said, “Yes, I’d like that,” I felt such a
wonderful comfort that I couldn’t help but smile back.
When I looked at the photos that night, I cursed my lack of ingenuity. The only
thing about Hazel that I’d managed to capture with any kind of accuracy was her eyes,
the straightness of her brows hooding her curved lashes. I realized with frustration that I
had been envisioning someone else all afternoon. I hadn’t had her pose like a modern
young model, but rather like the distant mother who looked so innocently happy in the
photograph taped to the mirror of my vanity, the one photograph I’d had the strength to
keep. Emotion had clouded my sight and made me see the face of another when looking
at Hazel’s.
<><><><><>
I sit at my dark wood dressing table. Or vanity, as my mother would’ve called it.
I found it at a flea market last Sunday and managed to get it up the back stairs into my
new apartment. It’s angled in the corner of my bedroom so that the light from the large
paned window reflects in its mirror’s surface. My walls are somewhere between apple
green and jade and always give my skin a yellow pallor. I knew this would be the case

	  

2	  

even as I flipped through swatches at Home Depot. But I wanted something that would
cause initial cringing. My hope was that curiosity at the effect of the color would follow
the initial distaste and that, eventually, endearment would develop. I’ve come to believe
that instant satisfaction with something, or someone for that matter, almost always breeds
eventual dislike.
I am twenty-nine years old. A year older than my mother was the last time I saw
her. I’ve taped a picture of her to the mirror. It was taken three months before she left. I
am vain in my determination to remain unbothered with my appearance. I wear linen
pants with drawstring waists and shape-masking shirts in muddy hues such as taupe and
sand. I air-dry my hair and the most makeup I can be imposed upon to wear is a swath of
plum lipstick and maybe a hurried brush of mascara on special occasions. I sit at the
vanity and press my fingers into my cheeks, distorting my face momentarily into
something, someone, I don’t recognize. This calms me. I pull at the skin around my eyes
trying to smooth out the little pile of crows feet that’s accumulated frighteningly fast. For
many women my age, being told they look young is the highest form of flattery. For me,
all I want is to not resemble the woman standing behind my mother in that photo taped to
the mirror in front of me.
I look at the picture with a critically assessing eye: Carol. My mother, with
sandy brown hair, shapely cheekbones, full lips and a gap-toothed smile. Her arms hang
like pendulums from her narrow shoulders. Collarbones, like bridges, lead to nowhere.
My mother stands beneath one of the tulip trees, her older sister, Kathryn, just behind her.
They both smile, but my aunt eyes the camera uncomfortably, her shoulders rounded but
ridged, angled away from my mother. She can tell what the camera sees: sisters, one

	  

3	  

prettier than the other; noticeably so. In the photo, there is something in my Aunt
Kathryn’s stance that conveys she is questioning her presence; looking for a way out.
Despite her pudginess (or perhaps in spite of it), she holds herself as though trying not to
take up space. I stand between them, my hair and dress and smile all belonging to my
mother; my face belonging to Aunt Kathryn. I try to remember who had taken the photo.
It must’ve been Uncle Charlie. I notice the color of our dresses. It must’ve been the 4th
of July.
My mother, Carol, is frozen at twenty-eight. In the photo as well as my memories
of her. In the photo, Aunt Kathryn is forty-one. But when I think of her, she’s fifty, face
etched and grooved, screaming something as I throw my bags into the backseat of a dirty
cab and let myself be driven far away.
Kathryn was thirteen when my grandmother left them. Aunt Kathryn told me it
had been that way for generations: two sisters born many years apart, the mother leaving
as soon as the eldest daughter was old enough to manage on her own. Kathryn used this
personal history to try and convince me that my mother’s abandonment shouldn’t bother
me. She told me, “It’s to be expected.” When grandmother had left, Aunt Kathryn was
old enough to take on the roll of mother. Yet she was too young to realize
responsibility’s addictive qualities; too young to see it was a disease that would eat
slowly away at her for the rest of her life, leaving nothing but bitterness behind.
I bite the thinness of my lips to bring a flush of pink to their surface. Creases at
the edges of my mouth spread like paint in water and I find myself feeling more forty-one
than twenty-nine. I have no sister to be older or younger than. There was simply me and,
alone, finding definition proves difficult. Perspective remains skewed. I feel I don’t

	  

4	  

know how to be someone modern, someone who is just me. I feel trapped in the oldfashioned poses of the photo tapped to my mirror. It serves as a reminder of the woman I
lost and the woman I seem destined to become.
<><><><><>
Despite the pounding of rain, when the phone rang late in the afternoon, I jumped.
“Hello?”
“Hello. Amy?” It was a woman.
“Yes. Who is this?”
“Kathryn. Kathryn Shale.”
To say my stomach sank within me would be putting it mildly. I felt like a child
caught in the act of stealing a cookie. Only, the cookie was disappearing for the past ten
years and the child was a twenty-nine year old me being caught by my aging Aunt
Kathryn.
“I gather you’re in Washington somewhere? I looked up your area code on the
internet.” With that reference, she sounded old; so much older than I remembered. I
found myself wondering what she looked like. The thinness of her voice made me think
of the clothesline she used to stretch out in the backyard before making me drag out
basketfuls of wet underwear and hang them. My fingers were always sore afterwards
from pinching the clothespins. Four finger-widths apart, Amy Maxine. You hear me?
My hands felt clammy, like toes that have been crammed into wet socks on a hot
day. I cleared my throat: “Has something happened?” I could only imagine some
catastrophe had occurred to suddenly spurn her into finding me. I had changed my name
and not reached out for nearly an entire decade. She must have gone to some trouble to

	  

5	  

find me. And the only way she would do that is if something bad had happened. Or was
about to. I could feel something knotting inside me.
“It’s your mother.”
“What about her?”
“She’s dead, Amy.”
I swallowed. Three times. I waited for tears to come, but nothing happened. I
felt strangely robotic and detached. “When did she pass?”
“About a week ago, I think. Maybe a little longer. It took several days for them
to contact me.”
I felt my teeth begin to chatter. I imagined Kathryn’s thick fingers matting my
hair in a half-hearted attempt to comfort me. Like she’d done ten years ago. When she
was left with me and all I’d had for companionship was her bitterness and I-told-youso’s.
Just like Carol to leave you to me. To pick up her broken pieces.
“Thank you. For finding me. To tell me.”
“I didn’t do this for you, you know. Ten years is a long time, Amy. I did this out
of respect. Out of love for your mother.” There it was. I was surprised it had taken
almost a full six minutes of talking for Aunt Kathryn’s indignation to make an
appearance.
I fought the urge to reply. I pressed my lips together and tried to imagine
Kathryn’s face instead. Did she still have eyes reminiscent of a bird? Small and dark and
hard? Had she swelled and developed jowls? Or had she thinned and creased with age?

	  

6	  

I remembered the voices, women from my childhood, meaning well as they cooed at me
and Kathryn,
She looks just like you.
You have your mother’s eyes.
Sentencing prophesies disguised as compliments seemed in endless supply after
my true mother, Carol, left. Suddenly, I was Kathryn’s daughter and she would never
corrected false assumptions. It wasn’t polite; unless of course the assumption was
insulting. Then, by all means, shove it in their faces. One morning after church a kind
older woman approached Aunt Kathryn and congratulated her on her pregnancy. I’d
never seen such a withering glare. The older woman apologized profusely for her
mistake, but Aunt Kathryn never greeted her after Sunday morning services again.
Forgiveness wasn’t her way. Not ever.
I forced my eyes open and gripped the edge of my small red couch. I forced
myself to take several deep breaths. “What happened to her, Kathryn?”
Kathryn sighed dramatically. “Carol was living in an apartment building.
Somewhere in California. It was something with her heart.”
“Who found her? I mean, how did you find out about her?”
“Some man called me. He said he was family.”
“Family? What family?” The phone cord had tangled itself around my ankles
and I kicked it off. I despised technology and in revolt insisted on using only my
apartment’s landline. It made me feel less vulnerable. It made me think I could never be
found, though apparently that assumption was incorrect.

	  

7	  

“How would I know that?” Kathryn was terrible at lying. She knew something
she didn’t want to say.
“Because you asked?”
“I forgot to. Happens to old people, you know.”
“Tell me what he said.”
She sighed dramatically. “He said he was the husband of Carol’s daughter,
Susan. That Susan was too worked up about Carol’s passing to come to the phone. That
they just thought we should know about her… you know.”
“No. That can’t be. It must’ve been someone else. Not mom. Another Carol
Janis. They must’ve gotten the wrong number.” My heart was pounding so hard I could
feel it in my throat. My hands felt slick against the plastic of the telephone. “How could
she have started another family? Had another daughter?” I fought to keep my rising
panic in check.
“Your mother was a complicated woman, Amy. I can’t pretend to understand it.
She was always one for making a mess of things. Never was very good at thinking of the
consequences of her actions.” I sensed there was more that Kathryn wasn’t saying, but I
felt suddenly exhausted.
I pulled my knees to my chest and buried my face in my lap.
“Amy? Are you there?”
My mouth felt as though I’d just eaten a spoonful of cinnamon, dry as the Sahara.
“I’ll call you later, Aunt Kathryn. Thank you again.” I hung up. The fibers of the couch
made my skin itch, but I pushed myself as far in between the cushions as I could go,
trying to disappear and feel anything other than the ice-cold realizations splintering open

	  

8	  

inside my head. I pulled the throw blanket over me and didn’t move until the next
morning.

It was three days after Kathryn’s call that the phone rang again. I didn’t answer,
fearing it was Kathryn looking for more confrontation involving information I wasn’t
prepared to learn. I was working on a collection for a big exhibit at the time and hadn’t
been out much. Ever since Kathryn’s call, I’d been ignoring messages from Hazel. I
couldn’t even think of how I’d begin to convey this story to her. She knew little of my
past. I kept it all vagueness and shadows whenever she asked. What would she think if
she found out my family was so horrible that I had gone so far as to change my name?
She’d think I was a nut job, that’s what. Or overly dramatic. I mean it’s not like Aunt
Kathryn and Uncle Charlie were the mafia or anything. How could I expect her to
understand all the secrecy of my past ten years? So I selfishly continued to ignore her
calls. I woke in the morning, made some tea, ate an English muffin with honey and
peanut butter, and went to work. I decided to pretend there wasn’t someone out there
who might want to know why I had gone suddenly dead-silent.
I took a break a few hours into the day and wandered back to my bedroom. I
couldn’t remember the last time I had washed my hair and was staring dejectedly at my
reflection in the vanity mirror when the phone rang for a second time that morning. I
stood very still as though whoever it was might be able to hear me if I moved.
The voicemail beeped:
“Hey Amy. It’s Hazel. I was just calling to say hi and see how you’re doing. I
hope everything is okay… Please call me back. I’m getting kinda worried about you. I

	  

9	  

know you’re probably just immersing yourself in editing or whatever for the exhibit, but
just let me know you’re okay somehow. Really starting to hate your aversion to
technology right about now.
There was another long pause and I knew she was rubbing the space between her
eyebrows, trying to smooth out the furrow that always forms when she’s thinking.
“Just take a 30 minute break so we can grab coffee and I can hear how the
exhibit’s coming. Okay? Okay. Bye!” Her voice went up at the end, straining to put a
happy spin on my lack of communication and her obvious concern.
I continued staring into the mirror. I resisted the urge to give myself a mental
lecture on my lack of social graces. Without thinking, I walked down the hall, through
the studio and kitchen and made sure the apartment door was bolted shut. Then I picked
up the phone and dialed the number I was surprised I even remembered, hoping Aunt
Kathryn hadn’t decided to change numbers in the past decade.
Kathryn sounded tired when she answered. I asked her for the number that the
husband of my mother’s supposed daughter Susan had called from. Kathryn pandered,
fumbling around with papers, mumbling about random things.
“Kathryn. Just give me the number, please. I know you have it.” I felt exhausted
from three days of trying to pretend I didn’t have a new list of infuriating questions that I
would never get to ask my mother, the woman who up and disappeared the summer
before my tenth birthday.
Kathryn shuffled some more papers. There was nothing she loved more than
holding the position of power; having something that another wanted but could not have
without her consent. “There’s nothing there you won’t regret learning after the fact,” she

	  

10	  

warned. “Some things are better left alone.” I thought for a moment I could detect a
sliver of genuine concern for my current emotional state. “Carol always had her secrets,
Amy. She pulled people into her sticky little web and—”
“Stop. Please.” I breathed in deeply through my nose. “Please, Kathryn. I don’t
want to fight. I just… I need to know who she was. Who she became. Without me.” I
twisted my fingers in the phone cord, trying to will myself closer to the mother I’d barely
known, the plastic covered wires an umbilical chord to the information I needed.
“She didn’t care about us, Amy.” Kathryn blew her nose noisily. She sounded
like a grumpy child who’s had their feelings hurt. “She left us.”
“No. Not us, Kathryn. You. She left you. I know who she was to you: the pretty
one. The one who got all the attention. But wasn’t it enough to have Uncle Charlie? To
have the pretty house and the tulip trees and the garden out back? Why did you have to
take me too? Why’d you have to run her off?” I sucked in and shut my mouth. I’d done
so well. But it felt as though it was all suddenly too much. And I couldn’t hold it in any
longer. Silence followed my outburst. My molars pressed into each other, making
deeper impressions in the mirroring enamel. I fought the growing urge to feel guilty for
blowing up on her.
“213-755-8178.” Kathryn’s voice was full of a meaning I couldn’t interpret. She
sounded sad and hurt and angry all at once, but I didn’t care.
“Thank you,” I said and before she could say anymore, I hung up the phone, my
fingers bloodless and shaking.
<><><><><>

	  

11	  

It’s my best friend Trina’s 11th birthday party. We’ve been planning it for weeks
and I got to help pick out the favors and put together the little gift bags and everything.
It’s a Tinkerbelle party and Trina’s mom bought me and Trina matching Tinkerbelle tshirts. But Aunt Kathryn won’t let me go because I didn’t finish vacuuming the upstairs
bedrooms, so I throw myself on the yellow linoleum floor and scream and kick and cry
and say, “I hate you!” And Aunt Kathryn puts her hands on her hips and leans over me
and says, “If I could raise your mother, then I can sure as hell raise you.” And I say, “But
I don’t want you! I want mom!” And she says, “Well, our mom didn’t want us either.
Carol learned from the best.” And the way she says “either” and looks at me all serious
makes me think that she’s really saying, “Your mom left because she doesn’t love you
anymore.” And I see Uncle Charlie’s shadow in the hallway coming from his study and I
think maybe he’ll say something, step in and tell me I can go. I stop crying for a minute
and sit up and rub my eyes, but he steps back and closes the door again and I drop back
down to the floor and cry. For real this time, because I feel like every time I make a
friend, Aunt Kathryn just tries to make it so I can’t see them ever. And… I cry for real
because, after almost a year, I’m starting to wonder if maybe mom actually doesn’t want
me. And that I was silly for thinking she did. That I was silly for thinking she’d come
back.
<><><><><>
I punched in the number hesitantly and held my breath. The phone rang seven
times before someone picked up:
“Hello, this is Susan. How may I help you?”
I was taken aback by the calm, automated nature of her voice. “Hi… Susan?”

	  

12	  

“Yes?”
“My name is Amy Jones. I mean, Janis. Amy Janis.” It’d been years since I’d
used my real name and saying it didn’t come naturally.
“Oh god. Oh my god.” She said sounding suddenly human and panicked and very
young. There was a scraping sound as something was placed over the mouthpiece. “Joel,
it’s her… What… I don’t know… Umm Amy. Yes… Shit,” trickled muffled through
the line. Then she was back: “I’m sorry, Amy?”
“It’s ok.” I tried to think of something to say. That wouldn’t sound stupid or
contrived or nosey or rude. So I told her I was sorry for her loss. I asked her how it
happened and if Carol’s passing had been slow or quick and painless. As we spoke,
things Susan would say, the way she’d give her answers using the inflection of a
question, made me think of mom; made me picture a younger her sitting somewhere in
California on a barstool in a white kitchen wearing a red dress talking on the phone to me
like not a day had passed. Try as I might, I was desperate to know when this other life
had come into my mother’s and sent mine careening off course. I ached to see Susan’s
face, to know her age. And so, awkward as it was, I asked how old she was.
“I’m twenty,” she said. “Twenty-one in September.”
I remembered the weeks before she disappeared, mom flopping onto the bed,
sucking in to button her jeans.
Stupid dryer must’ve shrunk ‘em.
“It can’t be,” I said, not wanting to believe it.
I stand by the bathroom door, listening to my mom retch into the toilet. The
stomach flu, she said, her eyes looking worried.

	  

13	  

“No, I swear. 1990. That’s when I was born.”
I remembered Kathryn’s snide remarks.
Carol, your face is looking a bit pudgy. Maybe you should renew that gym
membership, huh?
“1990.” My voice cracked and I swallowed. “1990 is the year she left.”
“Yes… I—I know. I’m sorry. I’m so sorry, Amy.” Her voice was kind,
concerned. It irritated me. I wanted to see her as the imposter who ruined my life, not as
my sister who wanted to lessen my pain. Life doesn’t prepare you for such encounters. I
don’t think anything can. When was I supposed to have learned how to talk to a sister I
didn’t even know existed when my only example of sibling affection was yelling matches
between my mother and Kathryn? When was I supposed to have learned how to have a
family when I felt like I didn’t even know the meaning of the word?
“Did you know about me?” I felt twelve again, stumbling through puberty
without anyone but a bitter and lonely aunt to answer my questions. Was I just a segment
of my mother’s life that she’d wanted to rush quickly through? Run away from and
forget?
“I did,” Susan said. “She’d talk about you sometimes. Usually after she’d had a
couple drinks. Or when it was late and she couldn’t sleep.” I could hear Susan smile.
“She’d come into my room and wake me up and ask if I wanted to know a secret. And
she’d tell stories about a girl named Amy who loved climbing trees and painting pictures
of birds and fairies.”
We were both quiet for several moments. My throat constricted. A rush of
warmth, a swell of forgotten love, seeped into numbed corners of my being. Then the

	  

14	  

ache of missing her encompassed me like a damp wind and the warmth was gone. I
shivered.
“I always envied this ‘Amy’. Her abilities. Her freedom.” Susan said this quietly.
“It took me several years to realize that Amy wasn’t just a character from a storybook.
Mom was out with some friends one night. I must’ve been thirteen or so at the time. I
wanted to paint my nails or something. And I found a box hidden under the bathroom
sink behind a Ziploc of tampons and her make-up case. There were all these letters.
Never sent. Addressed to you. And there was a picture…”
I knew which one it was. Mom always kept it in the side pocket of her red
pleather purse. I’m six or so, sitting on the front steps of Kathryn and Uncle Charlie’s
house, my hair in braids, wearing a pink and yellow dress with white bobby socks and
Keds. Mom took the picture. I remember she looked so beautiful that day. It was Easter,
I think. Everyone was all dressed up. I remember thinking that mom looked exactly the
way I pictured Cinderella looking if she were real. If you look carefully at the photo, you
can see Kathryn and Uncle Charlie in the background, under the shade of the covered
porch behind me. Uncle Charlie is staring straight at the camera, a smile on his face.
Kathryn is tucked under his arm, wrists pinned to her sides, like a propped up doll, her
eyes focused on Charlie’s face.
“Amy? I’m sorry if that upset you.” Susan’s voice pulled me back.
“No, it’s alright.” I swallowed. “Thank you. For telling me.”
“Of course.”
I wanted to say, “You should come visit Seattle sometime,” in an attempt to be
sisterly. Or friendly at least. I wanted to say, “You could stay with me. I’ve got a

	  

15	  

pullout couch. We are sisters, after all.” But I didn’t. Instead I posed a question I’d been
hesitant to ask: “Did you know your father?” I had never known mine. I felt that if she
knew hers it’d be just one more thing she had that I hadn’t. I worried I’d feel jealous or
bitter, two emotions I longed to avoid.
“Yes… I didn’t really grow up with him though. He’d visit every now and then.
Come down to LA for business and stay for a long weekend sometimes. He actually
moved to Santa Barbara about… seven years ago I guess it’s been now. We never really
saw him much though. I guess he and mom decided against having much of a
relationship. I never called him dad. He was around though. Came to my high school
graduation. Mom said they were old friends. Had known each other a long time.”
My head felt like cotton, as though too much information had been stuffed inside
and was beginning to push out through my ears and nose and mouth.
“Susan, I’m so sorry, but I have to go. Umm… I’ll call you later though, okay?
Let me know if there are any arrangements I can help with. Thank you for everything.”
I hung up and sat staring at the phone until it was dark, trying to convince my
subconscious that it had an overactive imagination.
<><><><><>
It’s August 1998, three days before I make the final decision to pack my bags and
leave Aunt Kathy’s for good. Uncle Charlie has been travelling more and more with his
job and it’s becoming next to impossible to stand the awkward silences that encompass
the dinner table on nights when he’s away on business in LA. It’s a dreary Saturday, late
afternoon, and I’ve confined myself to my upstairs bedroom claiming a headache in order
to read Bridget Jones’s Diary for the second time that summer. I hear the front door open

	  

16	  

and slam and see that the rain has stopped. I get up to look out the window, hoping to see
Aunt Kathryn leaving so I can have the house to myself for a while. But instead I find
her crouched on the front walk of the house, picking up earth worms from the quickly
drying cement and placing them back in the rich black of the flower beds. Something
inside me twinges at the sight and I turn away, hating the way her display of humanity
makes me feel.
<><><><><>
I worried it was too late, but called anyway.
Kathryn answered on the first ring. “Hello?” She sounded like she’d been
sleeping.
“It’s Amy. Did I wake you?”
“Just dosed off for a minute watching TV. What do you need?”
I waited for a moment, trying to find the words. “I forgot to ask the other day:
how’s Uncle Charlie doing? You didn’t mention him at all.” Kathryn was quiet. I held
my breath waiting for her reply.
“So, you figured it out.” Her tone was harsh.
“Figured what out?” I told myself I had to be wrong.
“Charlie and I separated about seven years ago,” she said, her voice quiet.
“Oh… I’m sorry—I didn’t know…”
“Now, stop that. What’s done is done. I’ll have none of your pity,” Kathryn
snipped.
“I don’t pity you. I just wanted to know how he’s been.”
“Well now you know.”

	  

17	  

“Well I mean where is he living?”
“You’re a smart girl, Amy. Figure it out. Now, I’m quite tired and need to get
some sleep. Goodnight.” And she was gone.
<><><><><>
“…49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59… READY OR NOT, HERE I
COME!” mom’s voice rings out.
It’s the summer before my 10th birthday and I nearly squeal in excitement as I
hurry to find a place to hide. In a panic, I squeeze through the crack in Aunt Kathryn and
Uncle Charlie’s bedroom door and slide between the doors of Uncle Charlie’s closet. His
closet is already messy and I know he won’t notice I was there. The last time I hid in
Aunt Kathryn’s, she put me in timeout for an hour just for messing up her shoe rack. I
snake myself down behind a couple of boxes, the legs of Uncle Charlie’s dress pants and
the cuffs of his shirts covering my face. I hear mom rattling around in the other rooms.
She keeps yelling out, “AH-HA!” before giggling and saying, “Don’t you worry. I’m
gonna find you!” My hands taste salty as I press them over my mouth to keep from
laughing.
Just then the doorbell rings. “I’ll be right back, sweetie. Better keep hiding!”
I sit there for a few more minutes, careful to breathe quietly in case mom sneaks
back up the stairs without me hearing. But after ten minutes or so, I hear voices on the
front porch and decide to stretch out. The carpet is itchy and I reach inside one of the
boxes to find something soft to make a pillow with and pull out something silky. In the
dark of the closet I can’t see it, but I feel lace and ribbon. Quietly I slide the closet door
open to let in a little bit of light. I’m holding mom’s blue nightgown that I picked out for

	  

18	  

her last Christmas with Uncle Charlie’s help. Mom said she lost it. I forget about hiding
in my excitement to show her what I’ve found. I push the doors open and climb over the
boxes.
“Mom! Look!” I stomp down the wooden steps.
Mom stands in the entryway, closing the door. “Sorry sweetie! Some vacuum
salesman.” She turns and sees me.
“Look! Your nightgown.” I smile as I hold it up triumphantly.
She smiles but her eyes look wide, afraid. “Well look at you! My little detective.
Where did you find this? I’ve looked everywhere.”
“It was in Uncle Charlie’s closet. In a box.” I realize that I’ve given away my
favorite hiding spot and pout. “Now I have to find a new spot.”
“Well, if you promise not to tell Uncle Charlie that I lost the Christmas present
you both got me, I promise to forget where your hiding place is. Deal?” Mom pats my
head quickly as she hurries up to the bedroom we share, calling over her shoulder, “Let
me put this away and then how about one more round before Aunt Kathryn gets home.
Okay?”
“Okay!” I shout. “Better start counting!” But upstairs all I can hear is mom
crying.
<><><><><>
Monday morning I made the decision to call Hazel back. I had begun hating the
sight of my face in the vanity mirror, tinged yellow-green by the walls. I felt like the
Wicked Witch of the West and vowed to pick a more complimentary shade next time I
mustered the energy to paint. I showered and scrubbed my hair until my scalp felt raw

	  

19	  

and my fingers were rosy prunes. The forecast said it was 39 degrees out and so I got
down on all fours in my towel and rummaged under my sink until I found the only blow
dryer I own: a pink travel sized one I stole from some Oregon Walmart when I was
making my way up the coast back in ‘98. When my hair was sufficiently dry I pulled on
leggings, a flannel shirt, and a pair of black rubber boots. I headed to Discovery Park, the
place where Hazel and I first met. I had asked her to meet me there. It was time to tell
what had been going on. I was early and so I made my way around the point, by the
lighthouse, and settled onto a wide, dark rock. The damp, saltiness of the air cleared my
head and made me thirsty. I closed my eyes, wishing I’d thought to bring a water bottle,
and listened to the waves slap against the water-smoothed edges of shoreline as I waited
for Hazel to arrive. I felt an unexpected peace with my decision to finally share my story;
to open up and let someone inside.
A few minutes later I heard something behind me, the squeak of rubber on wet
rock. “Annie! Hey!”
I turned around to see a man in his thirties slipping his way towards me. “Do I
know you?” I called to be heard above the waves. I was feeling unusually light. Despite
the chilly air, the sun was fueling me with a kind of happiness.
As he reached me his expression changed from recognition to embarrassment.
“Oh god. I thought you were someone else. My fiancé. Sorry about that!” He
scrambled off, making as graceful an exit as one can walking on wet rock.
I watched him leave, smiling to myself. Somewhere, there was a woman named
Annie who looked like me. I touched my cheek and, for a moment, my face felt like my
own.

	  

20	  


