Ike Karras hesitated half way across the big parking lot beside massive University
Hospital. Karras was on his way to The Temple, the building housing Student Psychological
Counseling Services and his first session with Dr. Knossos. He hesitated because he was feeling
increasingly anxious. What the hell had he been thinking when he made the appointment! Did
he really need to see someone? Well, maybe not, except for the vision or whatever it was. It had
made him feel crazy, violent and alone. He didn’t add possessed because possessed was way too
scary a thing to even think. Yes, Dr. Knossos I have had thoughts, I guess they were thoughts, about hurting
others, have even entertained suicide -- that made it sound like a dinner party with invited guests! -- in order to stop
them from taking me over.
As he approached the bland, three story, gray building where Knossos had his office his
panic reached attack levels. It felt like something alien inside his heart was threatening to take
over, replace him, Ike Karras, with it. The terror this caused caused him to remember the reason
he’d made the appointment and drove him toward it.
To fend it off Ike tried to turn himself a frozen jack pine bolt from a hundred cord pile up
along some pulp road near North Star in Northwestern Wisconsin where he was from. He hoped
seeing Knossos would stop it from happening.
The walk from his room back on Mifflin had been, to put it mildly, hard. It was as if he
was traversing a frozen Bosch Hellscape. He half expected a heron-beaked demon to skate forth
with a letter informing him to “just let it happen.” Because he felt like Frankenstein’s monster he
decided to walk along the railroad tracks which curved through the city to within a block of big
University Hospital and The Temple.

The tracks provided Antarctic anonymity -- meant he would not have to pass rosycheeked normal people on their way to classes. Normal he wasn’t. He’d been knocked up with
something awful. That might have been funny except it wasn’t. Bullshit, it wasn’t any monster, he
was fucking crazy, really seriously deranged or soon to be diagnosed as such. There was no nicer
way of putting it. He put his head down, wrapped his coat tighter and bored his way down the
tracks through the wind.
Now, cheeks numb, chest heaving he’d made it to the parking lot in front of The Temple.
It didn’t look like a temple, it looked like a very boring campus building, housing maybe some
administrative offices. It was possibly even colder in this gray stone canyon between buildings
than back on the railroad tracks. Okay, okay, his terror prompted, you’ve made it this far, you
might as well go the rest of the way. It decided for him, the tightness in his chest eased a bit when
it did. As he mounted the steps he noticed a small statue of a Sphinx grinning down from the
cornice over the entrance. Was such a statue appropriate or wildly inappropriate? Not an
appropriate question for someone with Pazuzu inside to be asking. He turned and continued up
the steps and into the building.

“Well, okay," Ike began, describing the nightmare that had precipitated his appointment.
"I was on top of Landscombe Hill. All the buildings were temples -- Landscombe was a temple,
Commerce, Education and Law were temples, University Hospital was a temple, the building
we're was a temple—like the Acropolis except Aztec, Aztec pyramids. All the professors were
priests and all the students seminary students unaware they were in a religious school. I was
standing in line at a kiosk on top of the hill. They were handing out numbers, draft lottery
numbers. When I got to the little window Chancellor Fay Passin was there except she looked like

The Wings

3

my mother -- Alma Mater maybe!" Ike joked forlornly hoping Knossos got it. Apparently he
didn’t, instead stared gravely over at Ike as if he thought his slight attempt at levity an escape
from the very serious business of...assessing him. Knossos was a big man with a large head
resembling actor Anthony Quinn -- at least he didn’t look like Freud or a Velazquez cleric. Not
the least hint a smile passed his lips at Ike’s feeble joke.
"Please continue, Mr. Karras," he encouraged, deadpan, "I'm listening."
"She, the Chancellor, my mother, was playing solitaire, turning over the cards. When I got
to the window she looked up at me, then turned up a card on the counter top.
“'Here,' she told me, 'that's yours.' It meant, well, it was like a fate. I didn't understand this
because the university doesn’t teach stuff like that. I looked down at the card. It had a picture of
winged Icarus on it, a small bed far below him in a labyrinth with a black, bull headed
thunderstorm hovering above the bed like one of those clouds from a Spielberg movie." Again
Ike looked up to see if Knossos got the picture. He was sitting chin in hand studying him
attentively.
"Yes, I think I see what you are describing," he responded removing his hand from his
chin.
"‘The Wings,’ the card said down at the bottom. For some reason this frightened me so
much I blanked the whole walk home from campus. Next thing I knew I was scurrying up the
steps to my room over on Mifflin." He stopped, looked down, overcome by emotion. It felt like
police interrogation.
"That's the whole dream, Dr. Knossos," he muttered apologetically.
"That's the whole thing?" Knossos asked unclear why such a dream should have
frightened the young man so badly.

The Wings

4

"Except for the part that happened after I woke up."
"What happened then…Ike. May I call you Ike?" Knossos asked. Karras was an attractive
young man, his features strong, nothing apparent to Knossos in his description of the dream that
would warrant a panic attack leading to a need to consult a therapist. Perhaps he was simply a
hysteric seeking an excuse to escape the...“draft?”
Ike looked down, overcome with emotion, tears threatening to spill from his eyes. Knossos
leaned forward encouragingly.
"Yes, of course you may,” Ike looked down, swiped angrily at the tears. “After that I lay
there awake for a long time trying to figure out what the damn card meant. I mean she, Passin,
was playing solitaire like she was Raymond Shaw’s mother in Manchurian Candidate opening
Raymond’s programming. I lay there a long time trying to figure out what that meant, ‘The
Wings.’ Escape from the Labyrinth or the Minotaur maybe? That was all I could figure out. It
took me a long time before I started to fall back to sleep -- that’s when it happened.”
“What happened?”
Ike felt like one of the little girls in Salem, Massachusetts confessing spectral evidence to
Judge Hathorne about yellow birds or the Black Man.
“Well,” he continued fearfully, “just as I was getting back to sleep...a black cloud came
down from the ceiling and…well, um...raped me!"
Knossos sat back. There was more here than met the eye. He needed much more
information. This was serious.
"Begin at the beginning, Ike, right after the cloud came down--what happened then?"

The Wings

5

“At first it was just pressure on me as I lay there trying to sleep. I did not sense it as
anything unusual -- an incubus, say.”
Knossos wondered where to go with this? Ike Karras, a first time patient sat across the
glass table describing a dream that had precipitated his visit. Knossos wondered as he often did if
Ike Karras might reveal anything to illuminate his dream of the night previous? Knossos knew
enough about dreaming to know a night’s dream often presaged the day’s events and he’d had a
disturbing dream the night before the meaning of which he felt might be revealed in some
encounter with patient or colleague, the next day.
Karras, a ruggedly handsome, obviously troubled transfer student in Studio Art he
learned in the first few moments of their session had sought him out because he had read his
book, Dreams and Human Change. In addition, he admitted he used dreams as a source of
inspiration for his paintings. Knossos listened with interest as he spoke of these things, mildly
flattered Karras had read the book but careful to maintain his role as therapist, some emotional
distance
“Go ahead, Ike, continue with your description.”
“After a minute or so it…it felt like...well, a bull was lying on top of me except there was
no bull in the room. That's when I got scared. There was nothing there. The sensation was real
so I sat up trying to dispel it. I know dreaming a bit, I know when I am dreaming, having a
nightmare, this was different. I was awake. I lay back down, nothing happened. I started to nod
off. There it was! Something on top of me, lying on top of me that was not visible in the room,
very insistent, very real. I tried to scream, I couldn't -- couldn't scream or move. It pressed down
right through the covers onto my body. It felt like a bull muscled thundercloud. Jesus Christ!
What is this Zeus raping Io?”

The Wings

6

He chuckled but the tears brimming in his eyes gave the lie to any humor. He acted it out,
pressing his hands down when he described the pressure, taking his position on the bed when
beneath cloud. His hair was yellow-brown, the color of dried asparagus fronds with deep roots of
umber. His forehead broad and open as if to make room for something, a “bright brow.” His
eyes were brown with flecks of the deep spruce or Lake Mendota viridian. There was a storm
cloud of hysteria in him. Knossos could feel it.
“I managed to wake enough to fight it. I sat up in bed, my legs over the side, heart
pounding suggesting that my body read what was happening as real, phenomenal -- it was
alarmed. I could still feel the pressure of the thing. I wondered if this is what a heart attack felt
like, something lies down on top of you and then it happens, you can’t breathe, your heart
clenches, next thing you’re dead?” He looked up at Knossos pleading for a simple explanation;
Knossos saw patches of snow over oak leaves and still green grass.
“Got me!” he shrugged, "I've never had one, but what you describe sounds about right.
That doesn’t mean that’s what it was. I doubt it. Continue." Knossos offered Ike the floor...to
make an idiot of himself, Ike thought, why had he done this?
“I lay down again. Maybe it was over, maybe whatever it was had gone away. Maybe this
was how God visits you and incubates a dream? Maybe I shouldn't fear it so much, fight it? Isn’t
that what they called it, 'incubating a dream?' back in the old days when a sick person went to the
temple and prayed for a dream and then slept in the sacred chamber. The God was supposed to
come in answer to the prayer and provide some kind of insight about what was wrong, what to
do to get well, what sacrifices to make. Was it like…rape? I suppose I should feel special! I had
been chosen—what an honor!” Karras turned his face because tears were brimming over. He

The Wings

7

was trying to make the description something closer to an academic discussion to avoid his
intense discomfort. Knossos decided to stop that.
“Yes, I think you’re right, Ike, but that’s irrelevant.” The point was a nightmare so intense,
so frightening it had driven a bright young man to seek out a therapist. Knossos guessed this had
been very hard, humbling. “What next?”
He had come on time for his appointment. Knossos could see, instantly he was suffering
extreme anxiety though trying hard to hide it. He tried to smile, shook Knossos’s hand, stood
awkwardly in the room until Knossos gestured for him to sit in the patient’s chair on the inside of
the glass table. The light from the window behind him kept his patients a bit uncomfortable -Knossos liked that.
He had just finished transcribing his own dreams into the tape recorder. The patient
before Karras had cancelled and Knossos had the luxury of a free hour. He read Whitehead
while drinking his third cup of coffee and smoking a cigarette. Then sat at his big desk on the
north side of the room, his right side to the big window that looked out over campus and dictated
his dreams into the recorder while Mozart played quietly from the small stereo on his
bookshelves. Knossos would have an assistant type them up later into the computer.
“I was in The Temple,” Knossos dictated, “except the place was like something on the
Acropolis — Parthenon maybe, or the Erechtheum, also elements of the Remis Theater in the
Music building, there were caryatids holding the place up.
"I noticed a huge snow capped mountain to the West out past the Beltline, maybe twenty,
thirty miles away. A dark storm glowered atop the mountain like the cloud of Jehovah above
Sinai. That’s strange, I thought, I don’t remember any big mountains like this in Wisconsin. I was sitting

The Wings

8

right here at my desk working on a new patient’s file. Just then the phone rang and Chancellor
Fay Passin answered when I picked up.
“There’s a threat to the Virgin,” she informed me.
‘What threat?” I asked.
“The one from the bed.”
"What am I supposed to do about it?’ I asked.
“Play Daedalus, give him wings,” she replied, then asked in a friendlier tone “why don’t
you meet me for lunch at the Union?” The phone went dead. Then someone, a new patient
maybe, was climbing the stairs. I could tell the new patient was angry. I woke having to urinate.
"Tentative interpretation: perhaps a new patient will present some challenge to my work,
perhaps a student with issues with Alma Mater, the University. Possibly a simple physiological
need represented by the pressure waking me to urinate."
Knossos tuned back to Ike Karras with his complete attention. He often divided it when
listening to a patient. It was impossible not to. Was he the one predicted in the dream? He
maintained the possibility without becoming attached...yet. If he was the threat then how was it
he was disguised -- as a patient?
“I lay down cautiously, fearfully,” Karras continued, “again it waited until I was almost
asleep and then it was on top of me. Maybe it was waiting until I was asleep so it could have its
way with me? This time I could not only feel it I could almost see it. It dropped like the whole
ceiling on top of me. I was suffocating. No, I was being suffocated. I tried to struggle but found,
to my horror I could not move, like I had been injected with some kind of drug, my nervous
system paralyzed. I could not move or breathe. It felt like the entire house was lying on top of
me.

The Wings

9

"Then, horribly, it pressed my legs apart and started to come...” Ike could not continue.
“Yes?” Knossos prompted.
Karras shook his head, snot and tears spewing down his face.
“Then,” he gasped, “I redoubled my efforts, but my body was like stone. ‘This must be a
dream!' I thought, ‘nothing this terrible can actually happen!’ Then it came in me.”
It was like a dam broke.
“A cloud does not have an erection...but it does have a lightning bolt!” An icy fire of
horror spread across Ike’s scalp.
"It put something in you?"
"Yes, it ejaculated...something awful."
"Let me get this straight,” Knossos interrupted, “A cloud like a bull came down on top of
you and raped you with a lightning bolt that ejaculated something awful...to what?" This was one
powerful, paranoid fantasy.
"Yes, I could feel it! I think it was trying to plant, I’m sorry, I know this sounds crazy, a
war machine!"
Ike was terribly embarrassed at what he was admitting. He knew how "crazy" it sounded.
“Finally, I must have fallen asleep. I woke the next morning with this terrible fantasy...in
me," he looked down into his lap to hide his humiliation.
“That’s quite a dream!” Knossos sympathized. “Here, use this,” he offered Ike a Kleenex,
"please share the fantasy."
“Keep them there for times like this?” Ike spluttered.
“Yes, I’ve found they come in handy, particularly for first visits.” Knossos leaned back. He
saw Ike was not ready to share the fantasy that had frightened him so badly so he asked a less

The Wings

10

troublesome question, “You mentioned your own interest in dreams and that you use dreaming in
your art, what is it about this particular nightmare that caused you to seek out a therapist?
“I don’t know precisely," he admitted, grateful for the opening, "because it seemed so real.
I thought I was awake only to discover I wasn’t! It was like a dream within a dream, like the
conception of something? It felt like a conception, like someone, something much stronger than
me…planting something!” To Ike the dream had a numinous quality that made it categorically
different any other dream he had ever had, but he found speaking about it in a psychiatrist’s
office with all that implied squelched his confidence. His hysteria, tears prevented him from even
mentioning the numinous aspect of the experience. He was not here to share ideas he was here
as a patient, someone who could not handle his life.
"And what about the fantasy?" Knossos asked again homing in on what had really
frightened him.
“It scared the hell out of me, Dr. Knossos. I woke with it in me. I cannot describe this."
"Please try."
"It was in me. I woke with it in me, complete, whole, like some kind of alien reality, some
kind of possession thing I had never imagined could be real. God!” He swore shaking his head as
if to dispel the power of the memory.
“I was in some classroom shooting. I did not recognize the building. It was so angry it was
like molten metal in my blood. I could see them, the little kids, running, running from me like I
was a monster." Tears poured down his cheeks without restraint. “I could not stop it. I saw it with
my eyes open like it was inside me, the Monster was inside me displacing me with this…rage, this
murderous rage! Jesus fucking Christ!"

The Wings

11

"It's OK, Ike, it's OK, it's just a fantasy, it isn't real! It will help you get a handle on it if
you get it out in the open so we can look at it."
"But, my god, Dr. Knossos! That wasn’t me! I would never do that! Something was inside
me that wasn't me! I shot them and shot them and shot them. I couldn’t stop it. I...enjoyed it,
enjoyed watching brains and blood splatter all over everything. It was playing inside me like a
movie. It lasted all morning. It made me feel like I wasn't me, like I was possessed.
“I didn’t go to class, was afraid to go outside, afraid to be near anyone for fear...it might
happen. Finally, about noon it began to fade a little so I got out of bed. Then it began to feel like
I had been attacked, raped and impregnated. What is that? Is there such a thing? What can I do
to stop it? It's left me feeling very frightened and very angry. I’m a first semester transfer student
so I don’t have a whole lot of social support. I like to think I can handle this sort of thing, it’s part
of my work, but this…school shooting thing or whatever it was threw me for a loop so I called
Student Psychological Counseling Services and made this appointment. I am still suffering from
shortness of breath, chills, anxiety. I still see the gun in my hands and the kids fleeing from me
when I close my eyes, their heads exploding when I pull the trigger!”
Ike threw up his hands.
“I don’t know exactly why I came. I was hoping you could help me get a handle on it plus
I could sure use something for the anxiety." Ike looked up with the same expression of horror on
his face as the poor damned fellow in Charon’s boat in Michelangelo’s Last Judgment in the
Sistine Chapel.
"I WANT A DAMN ABORTION!” he shouted apocalyptically. Knossos jumped slightly
in his chair. “I want that monster out of me! I want the rapist cloud thing dead! I want the bull’s
dick amputated. I want whoever’s behind this thing caught and punished!”

The Wings

12

Wow! Knossos exclaimed silently, this is not what I expected. He really needs help. Immediate
hospitalization maybe, probably. The school, the clinic had policies about this sort of thing. They
pretty much decided the matter for him.
“Ike,” he began leaning forward looking straight at the young man, “I have to ask you
some uncomfortable questions. My position as a therapist here at The Temple demands it, I hope
you understand.”
Ike sat back, his face still wet. “Yes, I suppose, I’ll try.”
“First, a tough one, do you have access to a gun?”
Ike twitched like an electric shock passed through him, his face turned pale.
“A gun, what kind of gun? You mean you think I’m a danger to do it?” His chest heaved
in gasps.
“A gun, access to a gun. Any kind of gun. I’m sorry, I have to ask.”
“No, Dr. Knossos, I don’t have access to a gun down here. Up north where I live I own
one, a hunting rifle, but nothing down here.”
“Okay, another tough one. Are you ready?”
The kid looked like a murder suspect in police interrogation.
“I...I guess so.”
“Are you a danger to do what it is you have described here this morning?”
“No!” Ike stated emphatically. “I mean I don’t think so. It just felt so real and the damn
thing was so powerful I did not know if I could stop it or not -- that’s why I came to see you! So
you could tell me it wasn’t going to happen.”
Wrong answer.
“I can’t tell you that, Ike, you have to be sure yourself.”

The Wings

13

“Then for Christ’s sake, no, it’s not going to happen, I’d...”
“You’d what?” Knossos already knew what he was going to say.
“I’d kill myself before I’d do anything like that! God, I’m not that kind of person.” Twin
streams of terror leaked down his cheeks.
“You have already answered my next question -- whether you are a danger to yourself, to
commit suicide.”
“Yes, but, I’m really not if I can stop the nightmare, understand it better, what it means.”
“I agree,” Knossos nodded, “leaning back in his chair. He had come to the hard part. “I
agree and maybe we can work on that in the future but for right now I think you would be better
off in an environment where...you feel safer, less likely to lose control, where you get more help
than I can provide.”
“Yes...what sort of a place might that be?” Eyes screaming.
“Right across the parking lot,” Knossos gestured toward the parking lot in front of the
Temple, “University Hospital has a top notch psych ward. They can provide you with the kind of
care I think you deserve, plus some sense of safety, that none of these things you fear will
happen.”
“Yes, but what about my classes? What about my parents? How long will I have to stay?
What will they do to me?” Desperation.
“Whoa, whoa, one thing at a time.” Knossos, held up his hands. “Forget about classes for
know or maybe you’ll be out or a day patient in such a short time you won’t have to change a
thing. I will contact your parents as soon as we set up your admission. I think you need this kind
of treatment badly enough I’m not going to ask for their permission first. If, after hearing from
me, they disagree with what I have done they can petition to get you discharged. I do want them

The Wings

14

apprised of the situation and I do want their help. However, I am worried enough about
your...troubles that I am going to recommend immediate hospitalization. Do you agree?”
Ike sat stunned. He had no idea what to say. The idea of hospitalization was, he had to
admit, comforting. He had an illness, one that could, with time, be cured. He could relax, share
some of the terror. There were people, experts, who knew what was wrong with him, could help
him get over it. The idea that he was sick was comforting, like wings, like flying up from that
horror at the center of the labyrinth. Sick people were sick, not monsters. Not monstrous mass
murderers, he could...relax, be “sick,” put himself in the hands of healers, doctors. This sense of
flying above it convinced him more than anything to consent.
“Yes, Dr. Knossos, I consent.” Just saying yes helped him a great deal. It was out of his
hands. He had put himself into other, expert hands. This was comforting, like flying. Infinitely
preferable to the reality of the bull lying on top of him.
“Good! I’m glad,” Knossos congratulated. “I think you’ve made the right decision.” He
smiled comfortingly as he pushed himself out of his chair ending the session. “Why don’t you go
relax in the waiting room while I call the hospital people and tell them I’m admitting you. They’ll
send someone over to pick you up. Then I’ll call your parents. I have their number from the
information you provided the receptionist. I’ll come say goodbye before you leave.”
Ike went and sat in the waiting room down at the end of the hall. He nodded to the
receptionist in a way he hoped she did not see as crazy and picked up a copy of People Magazine
and opened it. He saw the bed down at the center of the Labyrinth. It was real, flying away from
it and what happened on it to the...false comfort of the hospital was flight, flying away. There was
no place to go, to hide from that reality. He had to face it. Knossos wasn’t going to stop it. The
hospital wasn’t going to stop it. A diagnosis of mental illness was not going to stop it. A diagnosis

The Wings

15

of mental illness would help him fly over it, pretend it wasn’t real. He discarded the wings of false
hope, got up from his chair and without saying a word left the waiting room.

* * *

On his way into the Union cafeteria for lunch Knossos noticed groups of students
gathered below the several TVs placed high up on the walls.
The students all stared fixedly at the screen where some news story was unfolding.
Knossos was not particularly interested in the latest suicide bombing from Afghanistan or
whatever it was. It had been a long morning at his office. After lunch he taught at University
Hospital and made rounds on the psych ward. When the psychiatric nurse from the psych ward
reported there was no new patient to be admitted in his waiting room Knossos turned toward the
window and thought for an instant, part of him glad. The kid was no threat to do anything really,
but he was a threat to really do something.
“Let it go,” he told George, the handsome nurse with the dark pageboy cut. “I’ll contact
his parents and make sure they know their son came in for an appointment suffering extreme
anxiety. That’s all we can do except, maybe call campus police. I don’t think the situation
warrants that yet.”
“Okay, whatever you say, Doc,” George shrugged and left.
As he made his way down the hallway toward the cafeteria he passed another clump of
students staring up at one of the TVs placed strategically all over the Union someone called out
to him -- Marsha, a beautiful ex-patient from New Jersey.

The Wings

16

"Dr. Knossos, have you heard what happened?" She exclaimed pulling him toward the
students glued to the TV.
"No," Knossos replied, more than a bit annoyed. He looked up at the screen at the
shattered glass door of what appeared to be a school building somewhere.
"A shooting," Marsha exclaimed, "a terrible shooting in a Newton, Massachusetts grade
school. A young man blasted his way in with an automatic rifle and proceeded to murder
everyone he could including 20 or more kids! Isn't it terrible?"
Knossos closed his eyes. In that space he saw the entire Temple collapsing down into the
Labyrinth of its basement which was connected to the warren of tunnels beneath the entire
university including the hospital and knew his words to Ike had been full of darkness. A terrible
chill poured over his feet and then up his legs. When it reached his heart he knew he had to
harden his heart or change his beliefs. A lamp illuminating a terrible mystery had been brought
to him and he had to allow it up or snuff it out. Perhaps Ike was right, terrible news events like
the one unfolding on the screen could be aborted? The question was would he have any career
left if he did so? The question was did he have one now?
Fay Passin, the Chancellor had said she would meet him from lunch -- suddenly it hit
him. Fay Passin -- it was backwards! Passinfay, Pasiphae, Minos’s Queen, mother of the
Minotaur! He had been talking to Pasiphae!


