Toshirō stepped out of his house and peered into the vastness
before him. Millions of dusty flakes of snow were busily deciding
whether to touch the earth and disappear into the wet, dark mud
or return to the heavens whence they came. The sun was on the
verge of retiring for the day and like a last gasp, thick yellowness
filled the sky that was engorged with menacing, gray clouds.
Toshirō's house was on the mound that overlooked the lake. Now,
there was always a question whether it was a lake or a pond. There
are differences between things. Lake versus pond, bird versus girl.
The differences makes them unique. The differences keeps the
world continue in it's state of conventionality. Then there are
similarities between different things. The similarities makes it
confusing to discern lake from pond, bird from girl. The
similarities breaks order, breaks routine and breaks hearts. Usually
a lake is that which is deep and a pond shallow. A lake is relatively
bigger than a pond. As the pond is shallow, marshes and plants
take root in the fertile soil below and benefit from the sunlight as
well. The lake before Toshirō's dwelling was vast, sometimes deep
but busy with marshes and floating lotus plants. So, some called it
a lake and others called it a pond.

Exactly forty nine winters had come and gone since Tsuru
left. This day was the winter solstice, the first day of the fiftieth
winter without her. Flakes of snow gently touched Toshirō's face
as he slowly turned around and shifted his stare from the lake to
the oppressive sulfurous sky above the bamboo forest behind his
house. It was time for the last of the birds to fly south. He stood
frozen, gaze fixated in the direction where he knew the birds
would come into sight. He knew exactly. It was a ritual that has
been going on for half a century, with hope that would never die
and love that would never wane. A slow wind was managing to
whistle up a tune through the thick bamboo forest. The uncertain
scurry of the little snowflakes and the whimsical swaying of the
bamboo leaves proved that the wind had no reason or direction.
But Toshirō had both reason and direction. He stood there
unperturbed by the hustle of the wind, rustle of the leaves and
bustle of the snowflakes. Like every year, his mind was filled with
questions that began with “What if”, “Why did” and “Would she”.
Remorse, Grief and Hope.
It would’ve been an hour or more or less, the birds appeared
in the distance. Toshirō's eyes squinted myopically as the flock
advanced from the tall pines behind the bamboo forest, soared
over his house and flew across the lake. More than twenty
beautiful cranes with red crowns, slender white necks, dark legs
and outstretched wingtips. Toshirō's heart lit up with joy and sunk
with sorrow. As much as he was happy to see the cranes fly by, he
was sad that she didn't stop for him this time too. They slowly
disappeared from view like his happiness.
Cranes are the most special of all birds. Unlike other birds,
cranes do not age. They remain young throughout their lifespan
which is more than two thousand years. After the first thousand
years, they slowly turn blue and after two thousand years, they
turn black. They would marry only once and remain faithful to
their partners throughout their lives. Silk cranes are woven into a
bride's obi and kimono symbolizing loyalty. Cranes are pretty
graceful. When they dance, dreams come true. Love of joy and

celebration of life. They sway and spin, their soft and showy
feathers swaying along their movement. They lift up from the
ground, whirl with their wings moving downwards first and then
sideways, and float down effortlessly and weightlessly to the
ground. They have music in their minds accompanying their
elegant performance. Music they learned several thousand years
ago when the Kami created birds and animals to accompany
humans.
Tsuru did not promise she would come back. It was just
Toshirō's final request before she departed.
“You broke your promise. You have seen me half-crane halfwoman. My spirit wouldn't allow me anymore to live with
someone who has seen me in my true form,” she had said.
Toshirō pleaded, “I know I made a mistake and I would be
ever repentant for that. But my love for you is true. Please do not
leave me.”
With tears in her eyes, Tsuru replied, “Neither I doubt your
love for me, nor should you doubt my love for you. Nature binds
us with rules that shall not be broken, the rule that I protected by a
promise from you. Whenever you would look at me, your heart
will fence inadvertently to see me as a woman or as a bird, for you
have seen who I am and I am both a bird and a woman in your
eyes now. The line has been crossed and the differences have been
blurred.”
The differences keeps the world continue in it's state of
conventionality. The similarities breaks order, breaks routine and
breaks hearts.
Tsuru continued, “I will be forever thankful to you for saving
me from the trap, and please remember that I will always love you.
But I would have to leave now.” With these words, she
transformed fully into a beautiful crane.
Toshirō, in his immense sadness, couldn't find the right
words to say. All he could muster up was, “Will I get one more
chance to see you before I die?” With a shuffle of feathers and
flutter of wings, she flew out of the house and disappeared into the
sky. Toshirō couldn't tell if she heard his last plea.

Chapter 2: Grief

Toshirō stood there continuing his gaze over the lake for a
few minutes. The sun had set and darkness engulfed the town on
the other side of the lake. Lamps adorned the houses and
streetlights. Iridescent yellow pearls on a flatly laid out string on
the edge of the lake. Mostly poor fisherfolk lived there. Men
usually spent their evenings drinking at the only watering hole in
town, singing songs of the past. Women were at home cooking rice
and fish, and taking care of the children. All the bustling
condensed into small flickering yellow-orange summaries soon to
be curtained by snow.
On this side of the lake, there weren't any inhabitants other
than Toshirō. The last of them left to the other side around five or
six years ago. Yaoya had begged Toshirō to move with him to the
other side. Though he was Toshirō's best, last and only friend, his
appeals did not succeed. Toshirō told him that if he leaves this
place, he will lose her forever. The house was regarded as Tsuru's
temple in his mind. Yaoya knew Toshirō very well and even
though Toshirō's reasoning did not make sense to him, he just
agreed with his friend. He made sure that he visited Toshirō every

other day and brought him fruits or vegetables or rice from the
other side. Though it was not expected, Toshirō would share the
catch of the day with Yaoya in return.
Toshirō's stare was broken by a knocking sound from the
shore below the mound. His fishing boat which had been tethered
by a rope to a stump had come undone and was moving away
from the beach. Without haste, he slowly turned around, walked
towards his house, picked up the lantern from the engawa and
proceeded towards the steps. The large stone steps, that led down
the mound towards the beach, were dark and steep, their gaps
filled with thick moss decorated by delicately balanced snowflakes.
He knew the steps so well, he could climb down eyes closed. But
today he felt old and weak, he felt the need for support. He missed
her so deeply, his grief surpassed hope. His heart pounded like a
drum by the time he reached the last step. He stopped for a minute
to regain his breath and then, proceeded towards the shore. The
skiff hadn't drifted much and some form of a contorted knot was
still holding on to the wet stump.
Toshirō laid the lantern down, stepped out of his wooden
sandals and walked towards the mooring. The gravel was wet and
freezing cold. It made squishy sounds as he stepped on them. He
tardily bent down , picked up the rope and undid the loose knot
from the post. He tugged at it with all the little strength he had and
secured a good length of the rope on his side. He made two loops
around the deteriorating stump and slid the tail through the slack
in the loops to make the first half of the knot. He proceeded to go
around the standing end of the rope to make the second half hitch
and pulled as hard as he could to complete the knot. The exertion
made him feel light-headed when he tried to stand. The tugging
had moved the boat closer towards him and he decided quickly to
rest for a minute in his boat before heading back. He was so dizzy
and weak that he stumbled into it like it was his first time boarding
a boat. He felt the lake and land around him turn and merge with
one another. He lost balance on the rocking boat and fell back with
a thud. For some reason his body offered no resistance or reflex to
fight the collapse. Facing the sky, he lay there with memories of a

short-lived love. A fleeting wisp of joy from the thoughts of her let
an unnoticeable smile escape his lips. Magical white racing fluffs of
snow filled his view as his eyes closed slowly.

Chapter 3: Hope

Toshirō felt a familiar warmth and scent when he opened his
eyes. He was lying on his mat bed on the floor of his house. The
lamps were lit. The last thing he remembered was collapsing in his
boat and snow falling on his face. While he was wondering how he
got home, he intuitively felt he was not alone at that moment.
There was someone watching him. He turned and looked to his
side. He couldn't believe his eyes. It was Tsuru sitting across the
room.
“Tsuru?” he said.
“Yes my dear.”
“Is this a dream or is this reality?”
Dreams and reality are different things. And as long as they
are different, as long as they can be told apart, everything is fine.
There are times when dreams come true, like when a crane dances,
and during those times, reality seems to lack credibility. It had been
fifty years and Tsuru hadn't aged a day. If she were a woman, the
likelihood of this would be only possible in a dream. But Tsuru
was a crane and cranes, as we know, do not age. She was wearing

a white and pink silk kimono robe with hand-painted cherry
blossoms. The sash was a darker pink and pretty thin. She sat in
the well-mannered and respectful yokozuwari position, upright,
one side of her hips supporting her weight, both legs to the left
side and both palms resting on her knees.
“Your love for me and my love for you is real. I have come
back for you. Isn't that what you wished for? All those years, all
those seasons, not a day went by without thinking of you. It was a
constant battle between the power of nature to keep things in order
and the power of love to break that order,” said Tsuru.
“Those were the seasons to live. There were memories to be
made. You could have come sooner,” Toshirō said in a tone that
was weak and desperate.
“The decisions we make shapes the path our lives. Your
decision separated us for fifty years. But my decision, to fall in love
and live with a man, cost me an eternity of heartbreak. Many miles
I have traveled, many lands I have seen. Many miles I have yet to
travel, many lands yet to see. Many years before your time and
many, many after that. What was bestowed upon as a blessing on
our kind, do you realize how it has turned into a curse for me? You
grieve for fifty years of your life. What should I do for the
thousands of years of mine?” Tears welled up in Tsuru's eyes. She
continued, “It is not that I belittle your sorrow by foreboding the
course of my future. It is not fair to compare grief.”
“Oh, the lives we lived with these little instants of happiness.
Like trees in a barren land waiting for that occasional rain. I've
turned old and my body is failing, but I am grateful that at last my
prayers to see you again and my wish to be forgiven have been
granted. I just want to lie on your lap, forget time and pain, and
rest like there is no tomorrow.”
“I wouldn't love anything more than that,” she replied with
deep love in her deep loving eyes.
Tsuru stood up and walked towards the mat bed. Toshirō felt
like he was transported back in time. Tsuru looked exactly the
same and just as beautiful after all these years. Her curves
reminded him of a swan and her color, the petals of the water lilies.

She offered her hand to help him get up. With effort, Toshirō
lifted himself and reached out to take her hand. His hand was
wrinkled and calloused, while her's was almost translucent and
flawless. Tsuru quickly but gracefully knelt beside him and used
her other hand to support him from beneath. He leaned over her
and he could smell the familiar mild aroma of ume, the
intoxicating scent of the plum blossoms. The promise of spring. His
arms brushed over her shapely breasts which were as soft as down,
his shoulders gently sunk by the edge of her legs and the silky
kimono, and with a little more help from her, his head rested
sideways on her warm lap. It was all her, it was no dream.
“How long would this last?” he sighed.
“Forever” she whispered and gently combed through his
gray hair with her thin fingers.
Toshirō felt at home. He felt secure, he felt complete. He
closed his eyes and slept like there was no tomorrow.

*

*

*

Yaoya was the first to reach this side of the lake during the
early hours of the morning. Part of his normal routine, he had
brought a large bright cabbage, a bag of bitter melons and some
lotus roots. He found his best friend dead and frozen in his boat.

*

*

*


