“Randy, what is this I hear about you deciding to quit?” said Ann, the head of HR who
was on the other end of the line.
I looked out of the window at the pear tree beginning to bloom. This was the first job
where I had my own office, a direct phone line, a room with a view--and an employee to
supervise.
“Need time to plan a fitting memorial for my mother,” I lied.
She probably didn’t accept this story, because she asked, “Why don’t we talk in my
office before you leave?”
“Oh, all right.” I said. “I’ll stop by before heading home.” I had planned to leave quietly.
We’d had my farewell party and I already said my goodbyes to everyone in the department.
###
Ann and I met three months earlier when we were both first hired to work at the college.
I, along with the rest of the new staff, had been introduced to the faculty at the end of their
monthly meeting in a hall with a glass barrel-vaulted ceiling. Francine Dubois, the director of the
college library, had finished introducing me and there had been a thunderous round of applause.
When the hall emptied after the meeting ended, I was beckoned by a blonde woman of imposing
stature about five feet ten and three hundred pounds. Even with a name as common as Ann, she
looked as though she had stepped out of a Wagnerian opera. Since we were both new hires Ann
regarded me as an equal, although her title, VP of Human Resources, had the same rank as my
new boss, Francine.
Ann worked on bringing changes to the workplace, such as when she sent a survey to
clerical staff to measure employee satisfaction.
My boss must have intercepted the survey because she summoned all of us with
postgraduate Library and Information Science degrees to a special meeting in the conference
room. We sat around a long wooden table and read through the list of twenty questions.
Francine sat at the head of the table fuming. “Our clerical staff will never be able to
answer these ridiculous questions,” she said. “We have to do it for them.”
I think she was angry that anyone would deign to question the state of satisfaction of any
of her staff.
“You’re right. My staff will never be able to answer any of these questions.” Amanda
said, knowing that Francine would be retiring in a few years and she was next in seniority.
“What is this new HR person thinking? Sending out twenty- question surveys! Does she
think we have no better way to spend our time?” Amanda said loud enough for everyone to see
how she could command authority when her time came.
When, we came to the final question, Francine said, “That’s enough. The staff can answer
question number twenty themselves. After all, it is their survey.”
Sitting in that room, I tried to keep from laughing by looking at the trees outside the wall
of windows. The irony of the unilaterally answered survey was lost on everyone.
When I first took this job, my head expanded with euphoria. During the course of my
day-long interview I did a lengthy presentation before the selection committee on how to find
reference material and build collections in Business and Finance. During lunch, however, my tiepin fell into the tomato soup. But at the end of the day, in Francine’s office, it seemed the job
was mine. I found everything about my new boss admirable probably because she hired me.
“There is one thing though,” Francine said, before I took my leave that day. “I am
concerned that you may have difficulty with the person you supervise. Phylicia’s been in her job
a long time. Look, if she gives you any trouble, I want you to tell me.”
Then I didn’t think much of what she said, because I was gazing with awe at Francine’s
long and thin Modigliani face. She had jet black curly hair tied in knot at the nape. According to
Google she was ten years older than me. She was very tall—almost as tall as me--and had the
elegance of a ballet dancer as well as the discipline and dedication of one, also in this she
reminded me of my mother. Later, when I learned that she volunteered on Wednesdays at a soup
2

kitchen and worked in the office most days till eight or nine, my admiration for her knew no
bounds.
My window office was down a short hall. The room had a grey metal desk with a
computer on it; behind the desk was an upholstered chair. Another chair, across the desk, was for
visitors. There were bookcases on two sides of the room and a cabinet near the window. The
bookshelves were filled with library related material: red Dewey classification tomes and Library
of Congress schedules. On one wall there was a painting of a seascape in translucent blues and
cobalt. The window looked out onto the bare limbs of a pear tree. It felt like a safe refuge to me.
My mother would have been proud of her son!
My office opened out to a room with cubicles. Phylicia’s cubicle faced my door and
every time I left my office, I could see framed pictures of her numerous grandchildren on her
desk.
My mother had actually passed a little over a year ago; she had been a librarian at the
Athenaeum. I had been happy enough at my old job, where I had worked for almost twenty
years, although after Mother’s passing, I had been ready for a change, especially after her angry
eyes looked up at me from her hospital bed as she said, “You have wasted your education!
Wasted it! I had such high hopes for you! Such hopes! If you were mentally incompetent I can
understand. You used to be such an exceptional child but now you can barely support yourself! “
My father had walked out when my mother was pregnant with me. Not long after that my
mother went to library school.
I wasn’t quite sure about what I was expected to do in this new job. But I had been
selected and I presumed I would be directed. The staff at this library was mostly women.
On that first morning of work there was a Welcome banner and a vase of yellow daffodils
on my desk. Phylicia, a middle aged woman, with glasses and a perm, arrived carrying an
offering of a bowl of chocolate chip cookies. Everyone was awfully good to me. Phylicia,
surprisingly, was no problem at all. She told me all I was expected to know and was eager to
show me the ropes.
In the beginning I simply put my head down and grappled with my work. I did not attend
the coffee breaks or the parties in different departments, but Phylicia brought me doughnuts,
muffins, cinnamon buns and relayed gossip. She seemed to want me to succeed.
I looked forward to teaching students how to use Lexis/Nexus and ordering titles for the
Economics department as well as finding hard-to-find information in the electronic databases at
my command.
Slowly I learned that Francine ruled her staff with an iron fist. There were many
unwritten rules: No food in any of the offices; snacks and meals in the Break Room only.
3

“But we sneak food in,” Amanda, the next-in-line wannabe said with a wink.
In my second week, Francine looked into my room calling cheerily, “Yoo hoo! What are
you working on? How is it going, with um, Phylicia?”
“I’m reading Herzberg's Motivation-Hygiene Theory,” I said looking up eagerly. “How
supervisors can decrease factors that correspond to dissatisfaction and increase factors leading to
satisfaction.” “For Phyllicia,” I mouthed.
“What? Herzberg Theory!” Francine cried in disgust.
A month later, Francine came into my office and asked, “Are you working on that
report?”
For the past three weeks yellow Post-it notes had been appearing in my mail cubby. After
receiving seven or eight of them, I came to the conclusion that I was expected to prepare a report.
I had been sorting through my notes on the Lexis/Nexis class I had to teach later that week.
“Don’t worry about it,” Francine said glancing at my notes. “I came to give you this.”
She put her old Lexis/Nexus tutorial on my desk. “Just focus on the report.”
I wanted to show Francine that I could use Excel spreadsheets, but every day more
yellow Post –it notes appeared in my mailbox with additional data, and I had to start a new
spreadsheet. My computer was somehow not connected to the network, so I worked off a
colleague’s computer, saved the data to a disc and took it to my friend Marlene, since Marlene
was a whiz at Excel.
But when I showed Francine my Excel chart, she was not satisfied. How was I to know
that the cells shifted from Marlene’s computer to my colleague’s computer in the office? Still, I
ploughed on. Every day the report was returned with red penciled corrections. So, it was back to
a new Excel spreadsheet with more data from Francine to be added in. This process was chaotic,
almost as chaotic as driving on unfamiliar roads.
“But I’m using Excel” I told Francine, my voice rising the next time I showed her my
work. “I don’t know how the columns keep shifting.” It was plain Francine knew nothing about
Excel. I didn’t know too much either, but I certainly knew more than she did.
“I don’t care what program you use. I want a completed report by the deadline given to
you.”
After a while it occurred to me that what was expected of me was to complete a report of
a budget for periodicals. Surely, this had been done before. I rummaged through the drawers to
see what the report looked like from previous years. Instead all I found were Selection
Committee notes on the previous candidates for my job. I learned there had been twelve
applicants before me. I saw their considerable resumes and the remarks of the Selection
4

Committee. Apparently, this position had been a bit of a revolving door. My discovery of the
Selection Committee notes was like Bluebeard’s wife finding the bloody chamber! (It took away
some of the shine from my pride in my appointment.) Mysteriously, I found no copy of the
budget of previous years.
I soon realized that the interview had been all smoke and mirrors. Maybe the Dean had
been breathing down Francine’s neck and she had to conjure something out of a hat. Still, for a
month my friend Marlene and I labored late into the early hours trying to get the report done, but
it was of no avail.
“We have to talk,” Francine said at the beginning of my third month, frog marching me to
the conference room. “If you are able to complete the report in the next three weeks with no
mistakes (which would be a miracle), you may keep the job. Otherwise, you are fired. You’ve
already missed the deadline for the holdings report.”
That’s because, preparing this budget is like cleaning up the Augean stables, except that
it is the same labor repeated twelve times. I wanted to say. I am the miller’s daughter who has to
spin straw into gold.
“Now you could offer to resign and thus avoid getting fired.”
This job had many things wrong with it but I had a view, a private telephone line and I
was making more money than anyone in the office other than Francine, even more than Amanda!
And there was no driving on the interstate to get to work. Only once did I have to attend training
for the holdings report in a distant town on the interstate. Marlene had to drive me. I never tell
this to anyone, but I have panic attacks driving on the highway and on unfamiliar roads.
Well, when the day of reckoning arrived, there was no Rumpelstiltskin to help me spin
straw into gold. But that day in Francine’s office, I pleaded, “Can I please, please keep this job? I
will do all I can. Just give me a second chance!”
My pleading sounded despicable even to me, but anything was preferable to being
unemployed. I felt dizzy just contemplating the prospect. Francine shook her head in disgust-like a Grand Inquisitor. She gave her verdict, “You will leave at the end of the month.”
I couldn’t help myself I mimicked Francine. “You will leave at the end of the month!” I
put my fingers in my ears and flapped my hands and made faces. I was past caring. I danced
round and round crying over and over, “You will leave at the end of the month!” My work is one
of the few things I do well. I could not stand this assault on my self-worth any longer. “I don’t
care! F-f-fuck you!” I said rushing out of Francine’s office.
I only felt bad because I had stammered the expletive. In my office, I blurted out
everything to my friend Marlene on the phone.

5

“Is this the first time you’ve been fired?” Marlene asked quietly. “Dude,” she said,
“You’re lucky! Most people get fired many, many times.”
What did Marlene know? Marlene is on the payroll of her father’s locksmith business and
is a temp worker by choice. Mother, mother, mother! My heart cried. My face was wet. I have
disappointed you but I did my best!
Then I sent in my resignation to HR before I could be officially fired.

Before my final exit meeting Francine, Amanda and I assembled outside the conference
room; I had a vision of a cabal with figures in hooded cloaks with bell, book and candle.
Francine said, sinking into a chair in the conference room. “I can catch a mistake a mile
away. I just have to look at a document and I can see them. It is just a talent.”
I took a deep breath and composed myself. “At my interview, no one said anything about
preparing budgets and compiling holdings reports.” I was squinting because the sun glinted into
my eyes.
“There is such a thing as ‘Other duties as assigned by the director’.” She replied drily.
“Well then surely there must have been last year’s report. And what about the year before
that? Huh? What happened to them? If I’d had a sample of previous reports there would have
been no problem.”
“Previous reports?” Francine appeared confused for a moment, “Amanda?”
“But-but,” Amanda began, “remember what you said, Francine? That-that we’re going to
change everything?” She sounded like a stammering petulant child.
“But surely it could not have been so very different?” I hammered away, seeing my
advantage. I suspected that it was Amanda who had taken the reports.
Francine ignored my question and asked, “So what are you going to do?”
I had no idea. My old position was no longer available. I felt my stomach tighten.
“I’m applying elsewhere,” I said, airily. “May I give you as my reference?”
“Well, I will have to tell them the truth.” Francine’s lips curved in a withering smile. “I
will say that if the job requires attention to detail, he is not suitable.” She narrowed her eyes.
“Where are you applying?”

6

I gave her the wrong information. Actually, that morning I had put in my application at
our local library. It would be a small part-time job, an entry level position, but at least it was a
job, and surely it would lead to better opportunities. What option did I have? I cannot even strike
a nail with a hammer.

My colleagues seemed genuinely sad to see me go. Francine was away visiting her sick
father the week prior to my departure, and Amanda, apparently eager to get rid of me, said
smugly that I could leave four days before my official last date.
On my last day Phylicia said, “You were my one hope, and now you are leaving.”
“Francine wanted to get you fired,” I said, “but I stood up for you.”
“I know, thank you.” Phylicia said. Then she angrily added,“ What do they mean by
giving you such a difficult assignment, with you being so new and all?”

I had turned off my office’s fluorescent light and was about to shut the door for the last
time when the phone rang. It was Ann.
“You’re coming aren’t you? I’m waiting.”
Carrying my remaining personal belongings in a box, I shuffled down the cement
walkway dividing Ann’s office from the college library.
. When I arrived Ann had the ceiling fan on full blast.
“Randy,” she cried on seeing me, “I am so glad you came!” She began opening the
windows. “Do you mind?” Ann asked. “These days I’m always hot. I guess change of life is
coming on.”
She pointed to a seat.
“Well tell me what’s going on here.” Ann said in her booming voice after she had settled
into a chair.
“Well, I quit.” I smiled weakly. “But you already know that.”
“Why did you quit before talking to me?”
“This job is impossible.” My voice was a monotone. “I wish you could just see what I
had to go through.”
I was gratified to see Ann taking notes.
7

This was my time to exonerate myself, prove my worth. I had given twenty years of my
life to this profession.
“Data is not meant to be given piecemeal.” I told her. “My computer was not connected
to the network. And where’s the training? It took two months before I could figure out what I
was supposed to be doing. And what about last year’s report? Where was that? I ask you.” I
could hear my voice rising higher and higher. I was almost hollering. My mouth was dry.
Ann’s hand was flying across the page. She looked up avidly. “Go on! The Dean is going
to hear about this,” she said, licking her pen.
After I’d finished Ann looked at me and said, “I’m going to show this to the Dean.”
I felt vindicated. I had NOT screwed up.
When I staggered out of Ann’s office the shadows of late afternoon were lengthening.
Everything appeared surreal. I had been with Ann for two hours. My head was throbbing. I could
feel my pulse in my ears. It was only when I was crossing the parking lot it occurred to me that
my venting would get Francine into trouble, and I felt a sense of foreboding: I wondered if
talking to Ann was prudent. The only person it would help was Ann. Perhaps I should have kept
my mouth shut because it was not revenge, but validation I was after, I only wanted to keep my
job. Still, it had felt good to get it all out.

As time went on, I learned that Francine was on many city-wide committees, and that she
frequently met with my new director and also upper management at the public library. I ran into
Francine once at the entrance to the public library. Her eyes widened when she saw me, and then
she stared ahead resolutely.
I threw myself into my new job. In the beginning I shared a desk and a cubicle. Soon I
had a full-time job with a desk and cubicle of my own and benefits. Library patrons say, “Randy
can find a needle in a haystack!” about my skill in finding answers to knotty questions, or they’d
shake their heads in admiration for the books I’d recommended. “Randy is such a sweetheart!”
The lady patrons say. And the men would hole up for hour-long chats at the reference desk
which made me feel like a bartender. There were no salary increases because of the budget
crunch, my boss told me. There were plenty of openings in middle management, so I applied
three times. I was ready and waiting to assume the responsibilities of a higher position, but I was
never selected.
A few years later, Marlene and I went to the opera to see a production of La Boheme. The
auditorium was just beginning to fill up. Francine was seated in the same row as us which was
the front row of the Upper Balcony.

8

“My old boss,” I said to Marlene as I was making the introductions as we squeezed past
Francine to get to our seats.
“Isn’t this wonderful?” Francine said looking at me (referring to the opera). She had
retired she explained and was now able to go to the opera.
“Are you still at the Library?” she asked, leaning across two seats.
I nodded.
“Any higher position?” she hissed.
After a long pause, I said, “No.” I noted the fleeting expression of triumph on her face.
I could now see the reason why I had not been selected for any of the positions I had
applied for. I know, one is not supposed to put in a disparaging word about past employees but
sometimes all it takes is a gesture, an expression, and body language.
“Oh, uh, speaking of higher positions, did I hear that Ann has become VP of Human
Resources at an Ivy League college?” I countered.
Francine’s face twisted in rage. She bent her head abruptly and began to fiddle with her
opera glasses.
I leaned back in my seat satisfied. The pebble from my sling had hit the mark.
When I was a little boy, during our annual visits to my grandfather in Dillsboro, Indiana,
a cousin--who was the same age as I--would run up to my grandfather, a Methodist minister and
a formidable figure, after making sure that I was out of earshot, he would look up at the old man
and say, ”Randy says, Grandpa is mad.”
Grandpa was a little hard of hearing. “Grandpa’s Dad? You want to know about
Grandpa’s Dad?”
”No, Randy says that you are MAD!” And, he would wait to see what effect his words
had on the old man.
Ann had been on even more committees than Francine and despite being junior to her
soon pulled more rank and carried more clout with the Dean. Phylicia had heard that the Dean
had given Francine a rap on the knuckles, and that my old job had been drastically altered. Ann
was flying high, they said, and had even won a state award, and now as VP of Human Resources
at such a prestigious college had reached the top of the greasy pole.
My own career is nothing to speak of. I never moved up the ladder and now I no longer
hanker for a higher position. I will be up for retirement soon. I have a small pension and social
security to look forward to and the efficiency apartment left by Mother. My present salary is only
9

marginally greater than that of the junior most nose-ringed staff member. Maybe Marlene and I
will get together. With her earnings as a temp worker and my modest means, we may be able to
scrape together a decent retirement. But then again, I am quite happy with my apartment and the
one-cup coffee-maker in the kitchenette, and I like to be undisturbed in my own headspace. In
my retirement I will read all 47 novels of Anthony Trollope and sell my Beatles LPs to finance
trips to London. Sometimes I wonder about all the knowledge in my head and where it will go
when I am no more.
But even now--like a permanent scar on my face--I am burdened by the humiliation of
my failure at the only thing I can do well-my job, and I wish I could excise that memory of that
office with a window opening to a pear tree, a private phone line and a person reporting to me
who brought me all manner of eatables.

THE END

10


