To the students, staff and visitors at Zulond
Valley University the telescope on the science
center’s roof looked like an ancient artifact, a
quaint symbol of the university’s glorious past.
They thought of Eliad, the telescope’s caretaker,
the same way. Because he literally lived inside the
telescope, Eliad was regarded more as a crazy old man
in a bell tower than as a scientific genius, as he
once had been. When he was involuntarily retired from
teaching the school brass let him stay on as an
emeritus and live in the apartment below the
telescope. They gave him assistants, usually young
female grad students, and an assignment: monitor the
Briggers on the reservations on the surrounding
mountains. It was a make work job, as everyone knew
the Briggers were content with their prehistoric
culture and were no threat. He passed the assignment
on to his assistants.
With little else to do Eliad explored the inner
workings of the telescope. Everyone thought he was
just looking at the moons, planets and constellations.

Everyone knew that was all the telescope was capable
of. Everyone knew there were hundreds far more
sophisticated scopes all over the planet looking deep
into the universe.
But what everyone knew, or thought they knew, was
all wrong. Ten years earlier, not long after he
retired to live in the scope, Eliad had discovered
that the ancient telescope held a secret, god-like
technology. Deep in the telescope’s base was a billion
nano circuit light collector and a light file that had
been capturing and storing light from a world on the
other side of the galaxy for 100,000 years. The light
collector was so advanced it was inconceivable that it
had been created so long ago. How it worked was
incomprehensible. Yet work it did. Eliad learned to
interface his ring computer with the collector to
reconstitute the stored light into a stream, project
it into the implant in his brain and focus the light
on his mind screen. He could watch different 100,000
square mile sections of the planet or zoom to a square
foot. He could pick and chose periods of time. He did
little else.
He told no one.

Eliad found the far away world was astonishingly
like Entrainium. Largely covered with water. Polar
ice. Warm latitudes. Teaming with vegetative and
animal life. It was hard to believe it was a
coincidence that the world the collector found was so
like his own. He came to believe the components of the
universe made the development of such worlds likely
occurrences.
When he found the humanoid species, again, as
hard as it was, he told no one. It would have been the
most stupendous scientific news ever, of course, but
there was something odd about the far away world and
he wanted to learn exactly what had happened there
before he reported the existence of the collector and
what he found.
He saw that the human development on the planet
nearly paralleled his own planet. The evolution of
intelligent, self-aware carbon based lifeforms. Oxygen
breathing, evolving to humanoids which in turn evolved
through cultures: stone age, hunter/gatherer,
permanent settlements, towns and cities, nations,
wars; and races: black, white, red and yellow. Then
assimilation to one race, to peace.

But something was missing on the planet: a subhuman species living at the same time as the
technologically advanced humans. Not monkeys, gorillas
or baboons, Eliad found those. But sub-humans. Subhumans who could not form countries or governments or
even understand such concepts. Sub-humans whose
technology was a spear and a fire pit. Sub-humans who
were big bodied, small-brained, uncivilized and
untamable primitive tool users like the Briggers on
Entrainium.
On Entrainium they were in reservations. Huge
swaths of area in jungles and mountains where they
lived in caves or crude huts and hunted with spears.
They were big, strong, wild and dangerous. On rare
occasions in the past, before the force fields were
perfected, when exposed to humans the Briggers killed
on sight. The force fields were enormously expensive
to power and maintain. But they worked.
Or so everyone thought.
A five-year report on the Briggers was coming due
in three weeks, but Eliad, consumed with the far away
world, had assigned the Brigger-watch to his student
intern, Gracin. The plan had been for her to watch and

take notes and for Eliad to write the report. But as
the deadline loomed, Eliad told Gracin to write the
report, which he would review and forward to the
governor.
So while Eliad searched for Briggers on the far
away planet, Gracin watched the Briggers on
Entrainium. She completed the report a week early.
When Eliad read it he was stunned. He called her to
his office.
“This isn’t a science fiction writing class,
Gracin,” he said.
She was perplexed. “Sir?”
“This Brigger-watch report. I didn’t ask you to
embellish. And I didn’t ask you to extrapolate a
future.”
“Sir, I think you had better look for yourself.”

When he did, he saw Gracin had been understating
the conditions on the reservations. The campfires were
getting bigger, closer together. Picked up on the
audio receiver, the Briggers drumming and humming was
louder and more frequent. Turning the scope to the
artificial moon which bounced light from the other

side of the planet, which Gracin had not done, Eliad
saw what looked like breaches in the force field.
This, he assumed, had set off alarms in the capital,
but it did it?
Eliad arranged a face-to-face meeting with the
governor. It took some convincing. The governor
insisted a written report was enough. But Eliad still
had some juice with the governor, a former student.
The governor’s office sent a floater to take Eliad to
the capital.
The floater had pilot noticed the increased
activity among the Briggers and mentioned it to Eliad
as he climbed aboard.
“Is it the moons?” the driver asked.
“Cann is full,” Elia acknowledged, “but that
doesn’t affect them.”
“Then what?” the pilot asked as he drove the
floater over the campus and accelerated toward orbit.
“Is it their mating cycle? That makes them hungry.”
Eliad didn’t answer. He looked out over the city
at the rolling mountains. Their fires were yellow
pinpoints in the in the distance.
***

“This light collector thing is astounding news,
Eliad,” the governor said. “It’s going to make you
rich and famous and me governor for life.”
“But sir, the Briggers.”
“No Briggers on that planet,” the governor
scoffed. “So what?”
“Sir the planets’ histories, the evolution of
human-like species, the development of human
civilization are nearly identical. So where are their
Briggers? There is only one answer.”
“Go on.”
“They exterminated them, because evolutionarily
both species can’t inhabit the same planet.”
“Then we have to exterminate our Briggers. We can
manufacture laser cannons again. Recruit an army. If
we have too, given time, we can reconstitute nuclear
weapons.”
“Sir it wasn’t like that. They exterminated them
in their prehistory. Not in large battles but in small
fights over territory and game. The humanoids, with
better weapons and organization, physically killed the
Briggers, but that didn’t wipe them out. The humanoids

won the battle for resources. Effectively the Briggers
were killed by starvation and the elements.”
“But why, since the planets are so alike, didn’t
that happen here?”
“A similar as they are, our planet is much
larger,” Eliad explained. “With more room, there was
less pressure for survival. But in the end, only one
or the other could inhabit the planet. And in our end
only one or the other can inhabit ours.”
When the governor didn’t answer, Eliad said, “Sir
are you aware of the breaches in the force field?”
“We fixed them.”
“There are more opening faster than you can fix
them.”
The governor fell silent for a moment then asked.
“Are you saying it’s too late?”
“It may be.”
“But, we have to try don’t we?”
Though he didn’t say so, Eliad had little faith
it could be done. They Briggers were too big, too
strong, too widespread. Their lifespans and wheelhouse
peak physicality were twice humans. There was
something else about the Briggers. Something Eliad had

reluctantly come to suspect through Gracin’s report
and his own observations: The Briggers were cunning.
But, to the governor he said, only, “Yes, we have
to try.”
After Eliad left the governor fixed a drink and
walked to the terrace, opened the door and stepped out
to look over his gleaming capital. It had taken eons,
but Entrainium had achieved a nearly idyllic
condition. There was no poverty. Little violence. No
need for armies or weapons. No need for security, even
at the capital.
The governor sensed a presence in the darkened
corner of the terrace. He turned to look and a spear
was thrust into his heart.


