As Ben Baker walked up the path to his home he noticed it
was particularly dark inside the house. He thought that Bella,
his wife, or at least one of his two sons, Jeff or Sam, should
be home. It was 6:30 PM. It was the time he usually arrived home
from his work in the city as an attorney. Typically he would
walk through the door and, like most husbands and fathers, be
ignored by his family until it was time for dinner. He would be
left to go upstairs, change his clothes, come back downstairs,
pour himself a drink, sit in his comfortable chair and turn on
the television to watch the news. Then his wife would summon him
to the table to consume whatever she had had time to throw
together and call “a meal”. But, he suspected, tonight he would
have to fend for himself if he wanted to eat something. He was
disappointed.
At the door, without the porch light being turned on, he
had to fumble in the darkness for his house key. The door was
not usually locked, but it was this time. He inserted his key
into the door in a very inelegant, fumbling way, turned it, and
pushed the door forward so he could walk into the house. As he
did there was an explosion of light. All the interior lights
went on at once and a large gathering of people yelled
Bella

2

“Surprise!” That was the very first moment during the entire day
that Ben had remembered that today was his fortieth birthday.
Bella was right at the doorway, to give him a kiss on the cheek
and hug him. He glanced around the room and saw every relative,
neighbor, friend and co-worker he had in the world standing,
smiling and holding a drink of some sort.

He acted stunned; not

so much because he was stunned, although he was, but because he
knew it was expected of him to look and act surprised. He was
ashamed that he looked so worn out and wrinkled. He didn‟t want
to disappoint anyone, especially Bella.
“What is this?” is all he could think to say.
Bella replied, “It‟s your birthday, Dear. Everyone came to
wish you a happy birthday.”
“How nice of all of you. Thank you,” Ben said so everyone
could hear. “I think I need a drink.”
Bella walked into the kitchen where liquor bottles had been
lined up on the island and told one of the caterers to pour Mr.
Baker a very large whiskey and water on the rocks – his favorite
drink. After she saw the caterer deliver the drink to Ben, she
again kissed him on the cheek and whispered into his ear, “Why
don‟t you circulate a bit?”
Ben set his trench coat down over one of the living room
chairs and started visiting with each and every guest. There
must have been about forty of them. He and Bella had big
Bella

3

families and they were very popular among the neighbors. Also,
he made a special effort to find his boss, Pete Gray, and Pete‟s
wife, Annie, to thank them for coming. Ben had always been
keenly aware of the politics within a large law firm and had
made every effort to excel at cow-towing and schmoozing with the
higher-ups. He noticed his “partner” at work, Miles Smith, who
worked with him in the estate and probate department at the firm
of Hawkins, Gray and Ballard, but didn‟t make any special effort
to address him immediately.
As Ben wound through the crowd, shaking hands, accepting
hugs and kisses from the women, he was observing some
interesting facts: He was the most disheveled and poorly-dressed
man in the room. But, of course, that was because he hadn‟t had
a chance to freshen up and the other people had. Also, there was
music softly playing in the background from the stereo system
that had been installed in the living room a couple years ago.
Show tunes – Bella‟s favorite – were playing. And then there was
Bella. Of course, she looked stunning. Bella always looked
stunning. She was breathtakingly beautiful in a way that only
years of study of her and closeness to her could reveal. Her
physical appearance was appealing to everyone. But it was the
combination of her body, her face, her demeanor, her speech, the
look in her eyes, her makeup, her movements and her attitude
that created a masterpiece of a woman – a woman who could never
Bella

4

be forgotten or ignored. She wouldn‟t let anyone do either.
In keeping with that goal, tonight she was wearing a red,
sequined, scoop-necked dress that barely covered some of her
most appealing assets. She looked somewhat like a RoaringTwenties flapper, without the headband. But the eyes of every
person whom she faced were immediately and inexorably drawn to
her breasts, which she attempted to prominently display to one
and all. She was wearing bright red lipstick. All this red
contrasted wonderfully with her pale, white, porcelain skin.
There weren‟t many whose skin was as pale as Bella‟s. It wasn‟t
ghoulishly pale, but it reminded one of alabaster porcelain. It
was flawless and alluring. Her platinum blonde hair that was cut
in a tuck-under “bob” further accentuated her skin tone. To say
that she was sexy would make one think that it was her physical
appearance that made her so. Of course, that was partially the
reason. But the greater reason Bella Baker was so erotic was
tied more to her actions and her words. Bella knew what to say
to each person to pique their interest in her and her body. Yes,
she was flirtatious. Yes, she was provocative. But she did it in
such a subtle and non-obvious way. Everyone maintained their
high regard for her, no matter how brazen she might appear to
the casual observer. She was sweet, kind, caring. Yet she didn‟t
kill the hope that men and women had of getting closer to her,
both physically and emotionally. Bella gave the impression that
Bella

5

she was open to possibilities, not just sexual, but also
romantic. She never made the first move, but she knew how to
rebuff without totally shutting out the idea of a future
liaison.
Her reputation was affected by her sexual demeanor. Even
though every report of trysts, surreptitious meetings and
dalliances were untrue, people had seen what they had seen and
had heard what they had heard. As a result, men pursued her by
sending her flowers and asking her to meet them. Without
crushing their egos or destroying whatever hope they harbored,
Bella had thus far been able to remain faithful to Ben, and to
prevent him from exploding with jealousy.

Her motives for being

flirtatious had nothing to do with Ben or her interest in sex.
In fact, Bella wasn‟t really interested in sex. When she and Ben
had met in college – she was a sophomore undergraduate and he
had been a second-year law student – there had been the normal
passionate, yet fumbling intercourse. She had enjoyed it, but,
actually, it was the adoration and attention she had enjoyed
much more than the act of accepting insertion and feigning
orgasm. Ben had been a prize specimen of a man who had a bright
future. And there was no doubt he adored her. She had been
living in a large rental house with three other girls. On
Bella‟s twenty-first birthday, Ben had sent her twenty-one dozen
roses. You can imagine the envy and respect for Bella that had
Bella

6

been instilled into her roommates.
Bella craved adoration. It was the result of the
inattention garnered on her by her father and, to some extent,
by her mother. They took her beauty and charm for granted and
didn‟t seem to have the time or interest to dote on her or to
share her special gifts with others. Bella would look into the
mirror and look at her schoolmates and realize that she was
fabulous in every way, especially compared to the average girl.
She didn‟t understand why not everyone was fawning over her and
fainting at the very sight of her. So, in adulthood, she was
doing all she could to make sure that she was adored, pursued
and worshipped.

Chapter Two
The party continued. The caterers were still circulating
among the crowd, refilling drinks and offering hors d‟oeuvres.
More substantial food for the guests was situated on the dining
room table, along with plates, silverware and napkins. It was a
buffet from Ben‟s favorite restaurant, Rossini‟s. Bella had
turned the volume of the music up a bit, so those who were
interested could actually hear Ezio Pinza, Howard Keel, Gordon
Macrae and Shirley Jones belting out songs from their musicals.
Bella‟s love of the theater and, especially of musicals, was
Bella

7

unequalled among the attendees that night. But she didn‟t care
what they wanted to hear. She knew what she liked and what the
crowd should be listening to.
Eventually the moment came when Bella was going to present
Ben with his birthday present. She said, “May I have your
attention, please? It‟s time to honor the man of the hour and
for me

to give him his birthday present – at least the one you

can watch me give him.” There was tittering from the group, but,
those who knew Bella well had expected some reference to sex
somewhere in the proceedings. The room quieted. Bella walked
over to the fireplace in the center of the living room. There
was a fireplace screen draped across the opening. It was a
wooden panel that folded into thirds. It was covered with a
Michaelangelo-like painting of cherubs. She pulled it aside and
struggled to pull a large object out of the fireplace. It had a
large red bow on it. It was a new golf bag filled with a
complete set of new golf clubs. There was applause. Ben was
obviously pleased.
“Honey, I‟m overwhelmed. Thank you so much,” said Ben, as
he leaned over and gave Bella a quick kiss on the mouth. “But
don‟t think this will get you out of that other present you
promised to give me later,” Ben said. More tittering from the
group. Ben didn‟t mind playing along with the image that Bella
was a very sexual creature and that he and he alone derived the
Bella

8

benefits from such a propensity. It raised his status as a man
and as a husband, he thought. Even though he knew it was mostly
a charade they both played in order to achieve the status and
adoration they both craved, he felt very lucky to be married to
such an alluring woman. He was perfectly willing to do anything
necessary to enhance that image of Bella in the eyes and minds
of his friends, family, neighbors and business partners.

Chapter 3
As the night wore on only the hardcore well-wishers
remained. Drinking increased along with the volume of the music.
When there were only about fifteen guests left, Bella thought
she should go upstairs, use her bathroom and freshen up her
makeup. She hadn‟t been drinking which meant she was beginning
to get annoyed with those who had been. She needed a break.
After using her toilet, she sat at her makeup mirror and
reapplied her lipstick. She was adding some concealer to her
face when she heard the door to the bedroom open behind her. She
turned to see Pete Gray stumbling through the doorway.
“There you are,” he slurred. “I bet you thought you could
hide from me, but you can‟t. It‟s fate, Bella. I‟ve been telling
you that for years.” Bella didn‟t want to hear Pete‟s
suggestions, entreaties or conclusions. She had heard them
before and, until tonight, had managed to keep him at arm‟s
Bella

9

length without offending him. She wasn‟t sure how she was going
to do it tonight. But she knew she would find a way.
“Pete. Did you lose Annie? Why don‟t you go find her and
the three of us can have a drink together?” said Bella.
“Now, Bella. What fun would that be? You know I came to
find you so we could be alone. You can‟t tell me you don‟t want
that. I can see it in your eyes. And why not? You know I love
you. Let me show you,” Pete implored.
As he walked closer to her, Bella stood up so she would be
in a better position to push him away as he came at her. “Now,
Pete. We‟ve always been good friends and, I‟ll have to admit,
there‟s always been something there. But we‟ve been smart enough
not to do anything foolish. We both have great lives and aren‟t
going to throw them away for one foolish night, are we?”
Just then Pete leaned over and kissed Bella on the cheek.
The only reason he didn‟t kiss her on the mouth was that she
moved fast enough to turn the front of her face away from him.
She put her hand on the back of his neck. “Pete. Pete. Be a good
boy and go downstairs. Don‟t get me into trouble. The chemistry
we have is special, but we‟re not going to change our lives, are
we?”
“I don‟t know,” stammered Pete. “I want to. I want to be
with you, Bella. God! You‟re so beautiful. How can any man with
eyes stay away from you?”
Bella

10

“Well, because not only does every man have eyes, but he
has a brain, too. At least most of them. So he thinks better of
acting foolishly and chooses his wonderful life over a living
hell that would happen if he was with me.”
“Living hell?” quizzed Pete. “Do you think Ben would say
he‟s in a living hell?”
“No, I don‟t think he would. But it‟s taken us years to get
to the point where we respect and love each other the way
husbands and wives should. If you had only a few minutes with me
you would painfully regret it tomorrow. And so would I. Now go
downstairs. Go downstairs before I get mad at you,” said Bella
in her most motherly manner. She pushed lightly on Pete‟s chest
to move him closer to the door. As his back reached the closed
door, Pete said, “OK. But just one more kiss. Then I‟ll go. I
promise.”
Bella didn‟t like it. But she knew how insistent Pete could
be. There had been an incident at Pete‟s house about three years
ago when she hadn‟t been sure she was going to get out of his
house without giving up something dear to her.
“OK, Pete. Put your left hand on the doorknob.” Pete
obeyed. Bella leaned over and placed her lips on the corner of
Pete‟s mouth and gave him a little peck. Pete, of course,
attempted to parlay this peck into a slobbering, tonguewrestling French kiss. But Bella was adroit at cutting kisses
Bella

11

off short and managed to avoid any of Pete‟s tongue or slobber.
She backed away and said, “OK, now turn the doorknob and go
downstairs. Now.”
Her emphasis on the word “now” made Pete turn the knob and
leave the bedroom. Bella wondered how many more of these close
calls she would be having not only with Pete, Ben‟s boss, but
with other various men she encountered during her life. It was a
fine line she was walking between encouraging and discouraging
men to pursue her. And there might not be a net to catch her if
she fell.

Bella

12

Chapter 4
Bella Baker was the worst kind of flirt – an incurable one.
She was the epitome of a romantic. Her true life lay not with
her husband or her children or the rest of her family. Her true
passion and purpose was cultivated during her college and
graduate school years. She had read romances since she could
open a book. She became a fan of Jane Austen, the Brontes,
Fitzgerald, Maugham. Any story that contained true love and,
frequently, a happy ending, thrilled Bella. She obtained a
Bachelor of Arts degree in literature. While an undergraduate,
she had taken drama classes and joined the Drama Club. She
became involved not only in the re-creation of famous plays, but
she also attempted to write one or two of her own productions.
She never thought of herself as a singer, but the Drama Club was
putting on a production of South Pacific one semester. Bella was
so beautiful, had perfect blonde hair and the faculty advisor of
the Drama Club, Dr. Chambers, like every other man who had come
into contact with her, was in love with her. Bella was a skilled
enough flirt by now that she could charm her way into making Dr.
Chambers give her a chance to try out for the lead in the play,
Nellie Forbush.
“But you‟ve never sung or acted before, Dear,” said Dr.
Bella

13

Chambers as he looked into her beautiful blue eyes.
“Yes, that‟s true, Dr. Chambers. But I know I can do it. I
have done some singing in a choir. I was never a soloist, but
people always say they like hearing me sing,” said Bella as she
batted her eyes. ”And I have a rather flexible body, so I think
I can dance sufficiently to fill the role. I‟ll be able to draw
attention to Nellie on the stage, I‟m sure.”
Dr. Chambers was delighted to respond, “You certainly have
gathered a lot of attention around here. I suppose there‟s a
certain magnetism there.” He warmly smiled at Bella and grabbed
her hand to give it a little squeeze. She smiled adoringly at
him.
As a result, she was cast as Nellie Forbush, even though
she had never sung nor acted. At first she was scared and
floundered in her attempts to sing, dance or act. But, as she
realized how much attention would be focused upon her as the
lead, she redoubled her efforts to put on a great performance.
The one thing that hooked her on the idea of being Nellie
Forbush was that Emile sung Some Enchanted Evening to her and
This Nearly Was Mine about her. The boy playing Emile was quite
handsome. Bella‟s knees went weak when he looked into her eyes
and sang

Some enchanted evening
Bella

14
You may see a stranger,
you may see a stranger
Across a crowded room
And somehow you know,
You know even then
That somewhere you'll see her
Again and again.

Some enchanted evening
Someone may be laughing,
You may hear her laughing
Across a crowded room
And night after night,
As strange as it seems
The sound of her laughter
Will sing in your dreams.

Who can explain it?
Who can tell you why?
Fools give you reasons,
Wise men never try.

Some enchanted evening
When you find your true love,
When you feel her call you
Across a crowded room,
Bella

15
Then fly to her side,
And make her your own
Or all through your life you
May dream all alone.

Once you have found her,
Never let her go.
Once you have found her,
Never let her go!

This experience, more than any other, was to define who
Bella would be for the rest of her life. After the thrill of
hearing a man tell her that she had inspired him to give his
heart to the woman of his dreams and “never let her go”, she
knew that the love described in that song and others – ones she
would eventually sing and hear in the musical productions in
which she starred – was the reality she would seek for the rest
of her life. Musical theater became her passion. She pursued a
master‟s degree in drama and musical theater while Ben was
establishing himself as a junior attorney at Hawkins, Gray and
Ballard. After she obtained her degree, she was equipped to
teach many types of English and drama at two-year colleges and
to assist a full professor at a four-year university. More than
anything she wanted to be an actress and playwright. She didn‟t

Bella

16

see herself as a teacher, but was willing to be one if that‟s
what it took to keep her involved in her passion.
One thing that hindered her march to Broadway and its
lights was the fact that she was pregnant. Becoming a mother
imposed a different type of reality over her dreams. After
giving birth, she was a doting mother, caring for her son as
carefully as any mother ever had. She loved him very much. But
her heart was not full. It needed the constant stimulation of
romance and she knew she would continue to seek the type of love
and life that, as far as she knew, had only been depicted in
songs and stories. She wasn‟t sure that that type of love
existed, or was only imagined. But she knew she would continue
to look for it and do everything to be in the spotlight when it
was discussed or performed. Being a wife and mother, she knew,
was noble. And it wasn‟t without its rewards. But, to Bella, it
wasn‟t her reality. It wasn‟t her destiny.
As soon as she could arrange for adequate child care for
Sam, Bella joined the amateur musical troupe in the city. She
was willing to be a “grunt” until the director of the troupe
recognized her talent and gave her a chance to appear in a
performing part in one of the productions. While working as a
set designer, she warmed up to some of the singers and musicians
in the group. She hadn‟t lost her ability to attract attention
with her looks and her sultry ways. It wasn‟t long before she
Bella

17

was appearing in the chorus.

The director of the troupe, Mr.

Wilson, had trouble taking his eyes off Bella. Realizing this,
she befriended him and turned on her charm. “Inadvertently”
giving him a long look down her blouse or up her skirt at her
long, naked legs facilitated her remaining on Mr. Wilson‟s radar
as an actress who might have a bright future. He anticipated
having a “hands on” approach with coaching her: positioning her
within certain scenes and guiding her necessary motions and
turns on stage. He used any excuse to touch her.

Bella soon

became the understudy for the lead in The Music Man. And, as
fate would have it, after four weeks of rehearsals and four
sold-out performances, the actress playing Marion the Librarian
came down with the flu. It was Bella‟s time to shine.
Bella invited Ben to attend her first performance as
Marion. She didn‟t really care if she impressed him or not. But
she thought having him in the audience might calm her down and
give her a focus for her attention when she had to sing her
solos. It worked. When it was time for her to sing “Till There
Was You”, she looked right at Ben, who was beaming. The
performance went off without a hitch. Bella and the rest of the
troupe got a standing ovation. The applause crescendoed when
Bella came onto the stage to take her bow. The next night, when
the audience knew Bella would be playing Marion, about ten dozen
red roses were thrown at her feet during the final applause.
Bella

18

Bella‟s heart was racing. She had never been happier. She was a
star and admired by everyone who had seen her. This was the life
she wanted.
Unfortunately for Bella, the original Marion the Librarian
got over the flu and returned to her role, pushing Bella back
into the chorus. Bella had been the star for five performances
and had been very well-received. She knew she would soon be cast
as the lead in an upcoming production. Her self-confidence
continued to grow.

Chapter 5
By now Sam, her son, was four years old. Although it was
becoming easier to find childcare for him so Bella could spend
as much time as possible rehearsing at the theater, Ben was
growing weary of being alone most nights to fend for himself and
care for Sam. Bella sensed Ben‟s discomfort at the situation and
tried hard to assuage his loneliness. She stepped up her passion
in the bedroom and increased the frequency of initiating
intimacy. She even played a game with herself to keep herself
interested. She would assume the identity of one of the
characters in her current production and pretend to be her while
she was seducing and making love with Ben. Ben didn‟t mind. He
loved anything she did with him that remotely had anything to do
with sex. She told him that playing these characters always put
Bella

19

her in a more romantic mood. How could he object to that? He
couldn‟t.
Ben and Bella‟s finances were adequate, but, at times, the
extra childcare and expenses coupled with Bella‟s avocation of
acting put a strain on their budget. Ben‟s income was a good
one. Attorneys at large firms in the city commanded a reasonable
salary. And Bella had a modest income from a trust fund left to
her by her dead father. It wasn‟t enough to support her or her
family, but it was a good supplement. Still, there was a
financial strain. They had a big, fancy house and lived very
well. They discussed it and decided that perhaps Bella should
begin putting her degrees to use in order to generate some
income. They didn‟t need much. There was no reason for her to
work full time. But maybe she could teach a class or two at the
junior college, or become a teaching assistant for a professor
of drama at the university.
Bella had become slightly bored in her role as a minor
player within the local theater troupe, even though she and
everyone else knew she was destined to become a leading lady
very soon. Still, it was an amateur troupe. There was no money
being made by anyone. Bella dreamed of a lucrative career in the
theater. She was never going to get it by working as an amateur.

Chapter 6
Bella

20

Bella told Glen Wilson, director of the amateur troupe,
that she‟d like to discuss something with him in private. Could
they meet for coffee somewhere soon? With his heart racing, he
eagerly accepted her request for a date. The next day Glen
appeared at a local Starbucks to find Bella sitting at a table
for two, alone. Her smile brightened when she saw him. She
looked so lovely when she smiled, he thought. Glen ordered a
latte, then joined Bella at the table. She already had a mocha
in front of her.
“Hi, Glen. Thanks for meeting me,” cooed Bella.
Thinking this might be the time for moving the intimacy
between the two of them along, Glen put his hand over hers and
said, “You know I‟ll always be available to you – for any reason
– don‟t you?”
“Yes, Glen. I do. And I appreciate it,” said Bella. Just
then the barista called Glen‟s name. He stood up, walked over to
the coffee bar and picked up his latte and quickly brought it
back to Bella‟s table.
“So what did you have in mind, Bella?” Glen hopefully
asked.
“Well, Glen, I don‟t know if you know this about me or not,
but I have a degree in literature and a Master‟s degree in
drama. I‟m serious about my chosen profession and have the
credentials to move on up the ladder. I know I don‟t yet have
Bella

21

much experience, but it‟s hard to get quality experience that
would propel me to the big time. Not that I‟m not grateful for
the chances you‟ve given me to display my talents.” She put her
hand over his. “Thank you very much. I‟ll always owe you,” she
said as she gave him a sly smile. He intently smiled back.
“It‟s time for me to try to make some money as an actress.
I can‟t move to New York so I can attend numerous auditions. But
I was hoping you might have some connections there and put in a
good word for me so I might have a chance to apply for some
roles without having to move there.” She looked hopefully into
his eyes. Her eyes were huge and there were tears beginning to
form at the bottom of them. Her hand was still holding his. She
was irresistible.
“Uh, Bella. I would so hate to lose you as a player in our
troupe. I‟d miss you so much,” Glen said, looking directly into
her captivating eyes.
Bella replied with, “I just want my one chance, Glen. You
can understand that, can‟t you?”
Sheepishly, Glen acknowledged that he understood. “I know
some people who work in off-Broadway productions. You know – one
or two steps from the big time.” He smiled. “They put on
productions in places like New Haven, Philadelphia, Newark,
trying them out for audience acceptance. If the work is good
enough, they look for a theater on Broadway and the financial
Bella

22

backing to move the plays there. I‟ll tell them I have an
actress who could make the difference for them – someone who
could be an undiscovered star. How would that be?”
Bella leaned over and kissed Glen on the cheek as she
pulled his face to her with her hand behind his neck. “Oh, Glen,
thank you so much. I knew you would understand. And you wouldn‟t
let me down. I can always count on you, can‟t I? You‟re such a
good man.”
Glen pondered those last statements. They didn‟t seem like
ones a woman would make to a man with whom she wanted to become
more intimate. But they were positive ones and he took them as
hopeful.
“I‟d be willing to start at the bottom, of course. But,
like all actresses, I think I need just one big break – one
chance – to strut my stuff. And then I‟ll be on my way,” Bella
said.
“I think you‟re right, Bella. You definitely have something
special. You are something special, very special. I can‟t
imagine a world that doesn‟t have you in it. I‟ve never met
another woman like you. And I doubt that I ever will,” Glen
admitted.
“Aren‟t you sweet?” said Bella. “Thank you so much. If you
could make something significant happen, I‟d be very grateful,”
Bella said, looking directly at Glen. That statement was like a
Bella

23

punch directly into Glen‟s heart. It woke him up to
possibilities that he had previously imagined, but, until now,
had no hope of realizing. Of course it was Bella‟s way to make
grandiose promises and then fall short of delivering the goods.
But Glen didn‟t know that. Bella had a reputation as a free
spirit, a loose woman, if you had to give it a name. So he
remained hopeful. Bella stood up, put her arm around Glen‟s neck
and back and whispered, “I‟ll see you tomorrow, Hon.” She left
Glen as she had intended – beaming and anxious to make something
wonderful happen for her – and for himself.
That night Glen spent a great deal of time on the
telephone, talking to old friends of his who were still “in the
game” in and around New York City. He told them about a woman in
his troupe who was “quite special” and “uniquely beautiful and
talented”. He told them she was desperate to transition to the
professional side of the business and he knew she wouldn‟t let
them down if they gave her a chance to audition. He tried not to
make promises Bella wasn‟t willing to keep, although he couldn‟t
imagine what those might be. They all told him they would keep
her in mind and would let him know when and if something came
up. Glen was satisfied he could tell Bella that he thought he
had moved her career along, even though, in his mind, he
suspected he would never hear from these “friends” again.

Bella

24

Chapter 7
Bella was hopeful Glen‟s contacts would find an opportunity
for her to audition for an upcoming role near or in New York
City. But she wasn‟t relying on it. She had another contingency
plan for gaining fame and fortune. Unfortunately she was going
to have to put that plan on “hold” for a while. About five years
after giving birth to Sam she learned she was, once again,
pregnant. She wasn‟t happy about it. But she told herself that
it was making Ben so happy that she was paying him back for
whatever grief she eventually would have to give him for the
sake of her career.
She continued performing in the amateur troupe in the city.
She spent most of her time in the chorus, but, once in a while,
there was a secondary part open up for her where she had some
lines or even got to sing a solo occasionally. But, for Bella,
she was merely treading water. As soon as she could get this
whole pregnancy and birth thing behind her and regain her
girlish figure, she was going to set out for New York to find an
agent who could launch her career.
Bella gave birth as expected. It was another boy. The sex
didn‟t really matter to Bella. It seemed to make Ben happy, so
she was happy. She did the “mother” thing for about six months,
then found a way to arrange childcare while she went back to
Bella

25

pursuing her stage career.
All she had to go back to was her place as a player in the
local amateur troupe. She reunited with Glen, the director of
the troupe, and told him she was once more available for
whatever he and his New York friends could arrange for her in
the way of auditions for parts. The troupe was currently
performing “Damn Yankees”. She desperately wanted to play the
part of Lola, not only because it was the starring female role,
but also because it was singing role for a very seductive and
sexually powerful woman. Bella thought she fit that role
perfectly. But, since another troupe member already had the
part, Bella had to content herself with singing in the chorus
and acting in an “extra” role. She understood. She knew she had
the power to convince Glen to give her the role of Lola, or, at
least, Lola‟s understudy. But she chose to not use the tools at
her disposal to make that happen. She still envisioned herself
as a good wife and mother and didn‟t want to waste her virtue on
getting such a small role in a small production in a small town.
She knew the time would come for her to go “all in” for her art.
This was neither the time nor the place.
About four months after she returned to the troupe, Glen
told her he wanted to talk to her in private. She agreed to meet
him for coffee after the next rehearsal. They met at a coffee
shop about a mile from the rehearsal theater.
Bella

26

“Bella,” Glen began. “A couple of days ago I got a call
from one of my New York cronies, Shorty Finnegan. He‟s a
freelance casting director. Right now he‟s working for a company
that is trying to revive a classic off Broadway, with hopes of
making it to Broadway within six months. He had remembered I had
told him over a year ago about a bombshell blonde I had tucked
away who had unlimited talent. He‟d like to audition you for the
starring role.”
“That‟s wonderful, Glen,” Bella said breathlessly. “What is
the role?”
“It‟s Maggie the Cat,” replied Glen.
“You‟re kidding!” exclaimed Bella. “Maggie the Cat! That‟s
fantastic. Talk about a dream role for me!”
“That‟s what I told Shorty. You were made to play Maggie.
And you‟d be very grateful for the chance, right?” inquired
Glen.
“Oh, God, yes,” said Bella, fearing what “grateful” might
really mean to Shorty and to Glen. But she was so excited she
couldn‟t think straight and knew she could overcome any obstacle
that might get in her way of getting the starring role in an
off-Broadway production of Cat on a Hot Tin Roof. She would be
well on her way to the big time.

Bella

27

Chapter 8

As soon as Bella got home from her meeting with Glen, she
telephoned Shorty Finnegan in New York. He told her Glen had
made her sound terrific and he hoped she was.
“I am,” Bella joked. “All I need is a chance to show it.”
“I know you‟ll get your chance with me, Dear,” Shorty said.
“I‟ll arrange a hotel for an audition and call you back with the
details. Can you be in New York the day after tomorrow?”
“Oh, yes. Do I have to wait that long?” panted Bella.
“I‟m afraid so, Dear. Don‟t worry. I won‟t forget you,”
said Shorty.
Bella hung up the telephone and caught herself breathing
rapidly. This felt like the break she needed.
She couldn‟t wait; she got herself to New York City the
next day, even though her audition wasn‟t until the following
day. She wanted to have some time to relax and to practice a
passage for “Cat” which she planned to recite for Shorty.
Looking back on it now, although Bella seemed to be relatively
worldly compared to other members of her social group, she was
hopelessly naïve when it came to the theater and stage people.
Bella remembered that in the scene she hoped to re-create,
Maggie wore a white chiffon dress that was scoop-necked and
sleeveless. She brought such a dress to wear at the audition.
Bella

28

That night in her hotel room, she practiced her lines, including
body gestures, and drank a little too much, which resulted in
her falling asleep sooner than she had hoped she would.

Chapter 9

When Bella awoke the next morning, she discovered that her
heart was beating more rapidly than usual. She was excited to be
getting her big break. She knew that she might have to make
sacrifices to achieve her goal. She had talked herself into
being willing to make those sacrifices, no matter what they
might be.
Her appointment with Shorty was at one o‟clock in the
afternoon at a nearby hotel. She was ready and anxious at ten
o‟clock. At twelve-thirty she flagged down a taxi in front of
her hotel and told the driver the name of Shorty‟s hotel. She
was already sweating a little, and knew she would have to gather
up all her courage to perform for Shorty Finnegan. She was
wearing a red cloth coat over her white chiffon dress. Her shoes
were white four-inch heels.
When she walked into the hotel, she went to a house phone
and asked for the room of Mr. Finnegan. The phone rang. A voice
that sounded somewhere between Nosferatu and The Grinch said,
Bella

29

“Yes, this is Shorty.”
“Mr. Finnegan, this is Bella Baker,” Bella managed to
squeak out.
“Come on up to six-thirteen, My Dear,” said Shorty. They
both hung up the phone and Bella looked for the elevator. She
found it. There was no attendant. She looked down at the floor
while the elevator rose up to the sixth floor. During that trip
Bella talked herself into expecting the worst. She had heard
horror stories of “casting couches” and expected nothing less
gruesome than the worst. She was hoping to be pleasantly
surprised.
Bella tapped lightly on the door of six-thirteen and heard
a voice should, “Come in, Bella.” She turned the handle and
pushed the door in. The room was dimly lit. On the left side of
the room was a couch on which sat a creature who looked a little
more palatable than she had envisioned. He was relatively short,
had a large, mussed head of hair and was wearing a verticallystriped long-sleeved shirt with suspenders. His trousers were
wrinkled and soiled and extended down to his stockinged feet. No
shoes were in sight. Shorty didn‟t attempt to get up to greet
her. He extended his hand out to her and expected her to come to
him. She did and warmly shook his hand. He smile – a rather
weak, ghoulish smile and motioned for Bella to sit on the couch
next to him. She made sure there was some distance between them.
Bella

30

She continued to smile at him, but was not moving toward him
whatsoever.
Shorty said, “You‟ve come some distance for this audition,
haven‟t you,”
“Not too far,” said Bella. “I think it‟s about three
hundred miles.”
“Well, according to most theater people, three hundred
miles from New York City is on the other side of the moon,”
Shorty remarked to her.
Bella smiled coyly while keeping her distance from him. She
had noticed that on the other side of the room from the couch
there was a huge fireplace. Logs were burning, but it didn‟t
make the room seem too warm. She said to Shorty, “Mr. Finnegan,
would you like me to audition for you?”
Shorty responded, “Dear, please call me „Shorty‟. When you
get to know me better, you‟ll see why.” He smirked at her and
continued, “Sure, why don‟t you step in front of the fireplace
and do whatever it is that you had planned on doing.”
Bella slithered to a spot in front of the fireplace, but not too
close as to get burned or even heated. She imagined herself
looking at herself from the audience and struck a pose that was
about three-quarter front, but turned her head toward Shorty.
She was sincere when she said with a practiced Southern accent:

Bella

31

You know, our sex life didn't just peter out in the usual way, it was cut off short,
long before the natural time for it to, and it's going to revive again, just as sudden
as that. I'm confident of it. That's what I'm keeping myself attractive for. For the
time when you'll see me again like other men see me. Yes, like other men see me.
They still see me, Brick, and they like what they see. Uh-huh. Some of them would
give their--Look, Brick!
[Cassie stood before the imagined long oval mirror, touched her breast and then
her hips with her two hands. She ‘accidently’ touched the bodice of her gown in
order to further open her décolletage to expose at least one nipple for Shorty]
How high my body stays on me!--Nothing has fallen on me--not a fraction-Other men still want me. My face looks strained, sometimes, but I've kept my figure
as well as you've kept yours, and men admire it. I still turn heads on the street.
Why, last week in Memphis everywhere that I went men's eyes burned holes in my
clothes, at the country club and in restaurants and department stores, there wasn't
a man I met or walked by that didn't just eat me up with his eyes and turn around
when I passed him and look back at me. Why, at Alice's party for her New York
cousins, the best lookin' man in the crowd--followed me upstairs and tried to force
his way in the powder room with me, followed me to the door and tried to force his
way in!
As Cassie breathlessly collapsed her stance and took one of
the wingback chairs next to the sofa, she glanced at Shorty for
an approving stare. He was smiling, obviously pleased. By now
her dress was pulled back together, hiding her nipple once
again.
“Dear. . . Bella. . . isn‟t that your name, Dear?” he
asked. “What you did up there was start to seduce Brick, wasn‟t
it?
“Well, yes, I guess it was,” she answered, still somewhat
out of breath.

Bella

32

“Well, why you don‟t pretend I‟m Brick and try to finish
the job over here on my lap?” Shorty requested.
Bella took her cue, trying not to think of what lay ahead
for her. She sat on Shorty‟s lap, put her arms around the back
of his neck and gazed deeply into his eyes. “This is the best
part, isn‟t it?” asked Bella. “The anticipation.”
“Honey, when you‟re as old as I am you‟ve used up your quota of anticipation and are more than ready to move onto the main
event,” declared Shorty as he pulled her head to him, licked his
lips and planted a firm and wet one onto Bella‟s mouth. Next,
his tongue found hers and his saliva combined with hers. She
quickly and markedly withdrew her tongue and tried to back away
from his. But Shorty was insistent and continued to push forward, holding the back of her head tighter and tighter. Bella
attempted to stop thinking about what she was doing and to relax. It was difficult, but she somewhat succeeded in becoming
less passionate and more matter-of-fact in her movements.
Soon she felt Shorty‟s hand reaching inside the bodice of
her dress and tweaking one of her nipples. She tried to smile
and slightly backed away.
“You call this seduction?” growled Shorty.
“I like to go slowly,” quickly uttered Bella.
“I don‟t,” said Shorty, as he peeled off the top of her
dress, lowering it down to her waist. Her breasts were naked in
Bella

33

front of him, and he wasted no time putting his mouth to each of
them. She was grateful he suckled, rather than bit. She didn‟t
like it, but she didn‟t hate it either. She thought it could be
worse. And soon it was. Her legs were exposed up to her panties.
Shorty pried them farther apart and started fingering her within
the crotch of her panties. He found wetness, and pushed his fingers in and out of her slit. Bella couldn‟t help but begin to
groan. “So you like that, huh?” queried Shorty.
“It‟s getting better,” replied Bella, knowing that‟s what
he wanted to hear. Her breathing was becoming more uneven. She
tried to recapture her wits so she could begin bargaining. “So
if I do really well on this audition, you‟ll recommend me for
the role of Maggie?” she asked, trying to sound rhetorical.
“Well, said Shorty, “you know you‟re not the only girl trying out for the part. I‟ll have to compare your performance with
those of the other girls and, if you stack up,” he said as he
fondled her nipples, rubbing them hard back and forth,” of
course I‟ll recommend you, Honey.” He pushed her onto her back
on top of the couch, spread her legs apart with his hands and
pulled her panties off. They were soaked. Shorty held them up to
his nose and deeply inhaled. “Wonderful, just wonderful,” he
said to Bella.
Then he threw the panties on the floor and dived with his
nose into Bella‟s crotch. He stuck out his tongue and began to
Bella

34

lick her lips and inserted his tongue into her vagina, swishing
it around to obtain the most flavorable taste he could. He swung
her long, smooth legs up over his shoulders and told her to dig
her stiletto heels into his back. She tried to hurt him, but he
just became exalted at the feeling of pain she caused. He continued to suckle, lick and kiss her with longer strokes. He was
one of those men who could never get enough. Bella knew there
was more to come, but, for now, she thought this wasn‟t so bad.
“You just continue to reach for that perfect performance
and we‟ll see where it goes, OK?” Shorty asked. With that Bella
squeezed his head with her thighs and began to rub his face back
and forth with her legs. She thought he would like that.
After about fifteen minutes of Shorty‟s mouth and tongue
devouring Bella‟s private parts, he put his hand behind her back
and propped her upright. “Now it‟s your turn, Honey,” he said.
With that he pulled her head to bob down between his legs where
his member was extended up and out and aimed her mouth so it engulfed it. She knew what to do. She had only performed fellatio
on Ben and, more recently, only on his birthday. Shorty was
shorter and not as aesthically pleasing, but she was determined
to get the job done, then forget all about it. A very short time
elapsed before exploded and spewed his semen down her throat.
She knew he would expect her to swallow, rather than spit it
out. So she swallowed, then quickly withdrew her mouth from the
Bella

35

general area of Shorty. Bella pulled away and ran to the bathroom where she could rid herself of whatever vestiges of Shorty
remained on her body.
Once Bella regained her composure, she wondered why there
had not been intercourse. Even knowing that most people considered cunnilingus and fellatio to be more intimate that intercourse, she thought Shorty would have gone for the trifecta. He
soon explained, “I know we didn‟t fuck, technically, but I like
to get the best out of the way first. You know, in case you skip
town or die or something. I‟m not going anywhere and you‟ll have
to re-audition in a month or so. We‟ll get it out of the way
then, OR ANYTIME I SAY SO!” he emphasized, wickedly smiling.
Bella was hoping he would forget about a return engagement, but
could tell he wouldn‟t.
“Will I hear from you soon?” Bella asked.
“About what?” Shorty asked.
“About the job, the role as Maggie,” she stated.
“Oh, you‟ve got the job, Doll,” Shorty replied. “Just don‟t
let us down. You were good today. Be good everyday, OK?”
“I will be, Mr. Finnegan. I mean Shorty,” Bella corrected.
“A girl I can count on is rare and unexpected,” Shorty
said. “If you‟re both those things, you will be rewarded. We
open rehearsal at the Schubert Theater next Wednesday. Be there.
We plan on opening in Philadelphia twenty days later. You‟ll be
Bella

36

paid $300 per week for rehearsals and $500 per week for the real
performances. You‟ll perform an evening show on Tuesday and
Wednesday, you‟ll have Thursday off (the understudy will perform) and you‟ll play Friday, Saturday and Sunday nights, as
well as Saturday and Sunday afternoons. Seven shows a week for
you. And your co-star will be Gregg Zahn.”
“Gregg Zahn?” she asked. “Are you kidding me? How‟s he going to tape his soap opera every day?”
Shorty laughed. “He tapes those a couple weeks ahead, then
goes back to tape five more shows on the next Thursday and Friday.”
“Gregg Zahn?” Bella exclaimed again. “He‟s wonderful. Handsome, talented, and he looks a lot like Paul Newman.”
“Ha, ha,” laughed Shorty. “Don‟t get your hopes up, Honey.
He‟s got lots of women hidden around Broadway. He won‟t have
time or interest in you.”
Bella thought, “I‟m not looking for a hook-up with Gregg.
But maybe I‟ll prove Shorty wrong. That prick!” With that she
ran out of the room, full of happiness, expectation and excitement and forgetful of the things she had to do to get that way.

Chapter 10
Bella ran home to her hotel. She was out of breath when she
arrived, but phoned Ben to tell him the good news. He seemed
Bella

37

happy for her, although he wasn‟t fond of continuing to have his
wife away from home for an extended length of time. And he had
never heard of Gregg Zahn. Then she called Doctor Chambers. He
shared her enthusiasm and her pride. “How did you like Shorty?”
Dr. Chambers asked with a knowing countenance.
“We got along fine,” said Bella, not sure of to what she
was admitting. She could feel Dr. Chambers grin on the other end
of the phone line.
“I‟m glad it went well for you, Bella. Some women have difficulty acquiescing to his demands. I knew you‟d be a trooper.
And you‟re so damn pretty, too.
“Oh, and I forgot to tell you the best part. My leading man
– my Brick – is Gregg Zahn! Can you imagine?”
“That‟s wonderful, Dear. But be careful. Gregg has quite a
reputation with the ladies. Don‟t let him snare you. Save yourself for someone who‟s known you a little longer,” Dr. Chambers
said hopefully.
“Don‟t worry, Dr. Chambers. I remember where I came from
and who helped me when I was there,” stated Bella. Of course she
had no intention of rewarding Dr. Chambers for setting her up
with Shorty - maybe a kind smile and a touch on his arm, but not
anything near what he wanted. She allowed herself to beam at becoming more adept at this game. The right words and actions came
easier to her than they once did.
Bella

38

Bella‟s first rehearsal started at 7:00 AM two days after
the audition with Shorty. Of course Bella was early. When she
arrived at the theater, there were only two other people there,
the stage manager and the director, Armand Scott. Scott introduced himself to Bella by saying, “Hello, I‟m Armand Scott, your
director.”
Bella replied cutely, “Hi, I‟m Bella Baker, your Maggie.”
The director looked askance at Bella, wondering how she knew she
was going to be Maggie. Filling all parts was up to the director
except when the producers made a strong suggestion. After all,
they were the ones putting up the money. He had heard nothing of
“Bella Baker” or why she was supposed to be cast as Maggie, but
he figured he‟d hear soon enough.
After all potential cast members and others associated with
the production had assembled, Armand announced, “OK. Nothing is
set in stone. We‟re going to have read-throughs with various
people who are trying out for various parts. While these readings are going on the rest of you please be patient. You‟ll get
your chance soon enough. The first tryouts will be for Gooper
and Mae. Those men who are here to try for Gooper please lineup
on the left side of the stage and those women here for Mae
lineup on the right side. We‟ll give you lines to read to each
other when you meet in pairs in the middle. The rest of you remain quiet”.
Bella

39

Bella didn‟t like hearing the “nothing is set in stone” remark. She knew she had the part of Maggie and didn‟t like to see
others competing for it. As the Goopers and the Maes took their
turns auditioning, she looked around among the other girls to
try to guess who else might be up for “Maggie”. She saw three
other actors who looked like they might be trying for that part.
Comparing herself to them, she thought she was definitely the
best-looking woman and besides, Shorty had guaranteed the part
to her. She hadn‟t swallowed all that goop and submitted to all
that groping and fondling and filthy kissing so she would be
passed over. But she thought better of making a scene. She would
play along with the game until the inevitable was announced. She
WOULD BE Maggie.
As the auditions proceeded she found her heart was beating
a little faster and she was starting to perspire. What if she
completely flopped? She would still get the part, but the other
candidates would realize she wasn‟t getting the part because of
her talent – that there must be some other reason for her good
luck. They would ultimately conclude that it was because she had
performed extra favors for some of the people in charge and they
would think she was a slut. She wouldn‟t mind them thinking she
was a slut; what she would mind was them thinking she wasn‟t
talented enough to have legitimately earned the part. She knew
she was, but needed to convince everyone.
Bella

40

The Gooper-Mae auditions seemed to be over. Armand said,
“That concludes today‟s auditions for Gooper and Mae. Now we‟ll
move on to Brick and Maggie. We already know that Gregg Zahn
will be our Brick. But he‟ll need understudies and backups. So
we‟ll be testing pairs of you next. Maggies, you‟ll be reciting
the soliloquy at the beginning of the play – the scene where she
tries to seduce Brick.”
Bella‟s heart raced again. This was the exact passage that
she acted out for Shorty. She knew it by heart. She knew it so
well that she could put every bit of emotion into it that was
possible. She was going to ace this audition!
Luckily, her name was called first. Her “Brick” stood by
until her part was over so he could say his few lines. She
stepped to the center of the stage and began. She belted it out,
she cried, she laughed and gave Brick the come-hither look
called for in the stage lines. When she was done, some of the
others being auditioned started to clap. In her mind and, obviously in the mind of many others, she WAS Maggie. She stepped to
the back of the stage and waited while the others took their
turns. She almost couldn‟t bear to watch or listen. The others
were so bad compared to her. She hoped that fact was obvious to
Armand. She had been so engrossed in her performance that she
hadn‟t noticed that while she had been speaking, a nondescript
man had approached Armand and had whispered something into his
Bella

41

ear. Armand had nodded and sent the man on his way, while continuing to watch and listen to Bella.
After all the performances for Brick and Maggie, Armand announced, “Will the following people report here tomorrow at
eight AM. To the others, thank you for your interest and good
luck in the future. OK, the Goopers . . . he read three names.
Now for the Maes . . . again another three names. The Bricks . .
. three more names. The Maggies . . . blah, blah, and Bella
Baker.” A big smile came to Bella‟s face. She gave Armand a
flirtatious look and quietly left the building.
When she got back to her hotel room, she poured herself a
stiff drink and got on the phone. First she called her husband,
Ben, and told him she had made the cut down to the final three.
He feigned excitement and pride. He didn‟t really understand
what all of it meant. But he was happy that Bella was happy.
Then she called Dr. Chambers. He reinforced the fact that he always knew she had it in her to be successful and didn‟t doubt
for one second that she would be the Maggie chosen. After that
she called Shorty. She explained the bit of confusion over having to audition and come back for the final audition when Shorty
had promised she had the part sewn up. “My dear,” said Shorty.
“You do have the part sewn up. But for appearance‟s sake, we
have to jump through the hoops to make it look as if there was
some competition. You can understand that, can‟t you?” Bella
Bella

42

said that she did. Then Shorty said, “You know, when you‟re officially named „Maggie‟, I‟ll expect a „thank you‟ visit.
“Sure, Shorty. Of course,” is all she could think to say,
not really meaning it.
“OK, Darling,” said Shorty. I‟m looking forward to your
success and our time together. I miss you.”
“OK, Shorty. Good-bye,” Bella croaked out.
Bella looked forward to the next day with trepidation –
wondering if her audition as “Maggie” was finally over or if
there would be more distasteful hoops through which she would
have to jump. She would be reluctant, but eventually willing.

Bella

43

Bella


