Father Esparza coughs, not hearing Father Teague's question as the two men emerge from
the darkness of the prayer chapel and blink in the sunlit courtyard. The younger priest is still
feeling his way. He speaks without assurance, and too softly for a man of Father Esparza's age.
Teague is freshly minted seminary product, all green and scholarly with the potential to be a
capable shepherd of the Holy Saints parish, but as Father Esparza recalls from a line in an old
showtune, "He doesn't know the territory!"
Father Teague now seems to be repeating his question, but Father Esparza remains
distracted. An old man has caught his attention. Gordon Worley, a fixture of the church for
decades, has no more than a few years on the elder priest. He looks short but strong in a charcoal
suit rubbed shiny at the joints, helping his wife Maureen up the curb of the crowded parking lot.
Despite the age of the clothes, a crisp collar and smartly knotted tie make him look the very
picture of Sunday Best. The bright morning puts a sheen on his bald crown. Billows of white
brow shade his dark eyes. He does not smile, but whispers something soft and kind to his
beloved as she totters alongside to take his arm. She matches him in modest dark blue dress and
pearls. Their generation still holds that a dignified entrance is the crucial first part of worship.
Father Esparza wonders where that idea went. Without conscious effort, the old couple set their
pace to the toll of the big tower bell inviting the faithful. With the subtlety of an old-fashioned
gentleman, he checks his stride to allow for her shuffling gait. They move in perfect rhythm up
the cobbled walk, eyes lifted to the great rose window in serene expectation. If a golden word
were emblazoned on every heart, the word on this man and woman would be DEVOUT. Father
Esparza catches himself wondering whether, without a career spent in holy vestments, he would

have grown naturally into a person of such manifest wholesomeness.
Holy Saints Cathedral is the grand stone Colossus of Midtown. Father Esparza knows
how it looks to the hundreds filing in from the overflow lot. The two dozen archways on the far
end of the courtyard swallow the slow-moving crowd in great gulps. The aged make their way
with determination. The young put on grudging reverence like too-tight slacks. Parents fight to
quiet and un-muss their packs of children. The children yammer and jitter out the lingering
effects of too many Halloween treats. Even so, the Solemnity of All Saints has already begun.
Father Teague appears to be pressing on with his barely-audible inquiries, but Father Esparza
only gives him nod after abstracted nod, playing the soft-headed elder as a cold hand of
anticipation gives his heart a faint squeeze. Everything will be clear to the junior priest in time.
As the feast day falls on Sunday this year, there are more than the usual number of fairweather visitors. Many mothers, mothers-in-law, grandmothers and so on have cajoled their
grown and semi-grown offspring into coming along when they would rather be nursing milk-rich
coffee in bed, discussing the likelihood of ham and eggs for lunch. He tries to imagine the
younger people as they looked several hours ago, at one of a thousand boozy costume parties.
Father Esparza spent Halloween with his mother, who clings to life despite the ailments giving
her so much dull, constant pain. She does better at night, and they shared a pleasant brandy and
coffee with an after-dinner showing of The Ghost and Mrs. Muir. After she fell asleep, the father
helped himself to a straight brandy and watched the second half of a film about a masked killer
causing mayhem in a hospital. He harbors a secret fondness for tawdry suspense and cheap
special effects. He also has trouble sleeping when a cough sets in.
Another familiar face emerges from the crowd. Gloria Visconti is an elegant lady of a
certain age, a generation younger than the Worleys. He has never known her to miss a Sunday

mass, at least not since her divorce twenty-odd years ago. On top of that she makes two or three
a week, often appearing in business attire on a long lunch. For some reason he cannot recall just
now what she does for a living. At her side is a pretty young woman that the priest recognizes as
her daughter, Veronica or Violet or maybe Rose. Hers is a less frequent face around the church.
Her hair is a shade off natural color, perhaps the remains of a party costume. She looks a touch
hung-over, which Father Esparza remarks not with disapproval but with empathy. The young
man she leads by the hand is a stranger. He does not look entirely unchurched, but Father
Esparza bets he will saunter heedless past the font and take his seat without genuflecting. An old
clergyman can spot a Protestant by the gait, the almost- but not-quite-certainty of himself, the
stopping short a moment too long at the unfamiliar parts of the mass. He is bound to stumble at
the Nicene Creed.
Father Teague registers surprise as his forehead and collar break into sudden sweat, not
from his nervous demeanor but owing to a sudden rush of warmth as they pass through the side
door to the church. At the sight of the fire he looks dazzled and, to Father Esparza’s grim
satisfaction, more than a little alarmed. An alcove devoted to racks of votive candles takes up
most of the rear wall. The collective glow has nearly the same effect as a roaring fireplace. Once
their eyes adjust, Teague notices the softening stubs of wax in a variety of colors, from blue to
orange to forest green and more. The wall above the candles is a stone mosaic, actually a very
old feature of the church that many must assume was styled to look that way. The foreground is a
row of oval cameos meticulously wrought in colored pebbles, showing the ancient beatific faces
of saints. Each face is outlined on a field of its own distinct color, corresponding to the colors of
the candles. One of the most common questions thrown at Father Esparza by visitors regards the
veneration of saints. He typically replies along the lines of “wait and see,” believing the fruits of

saintly patronage and prayer speak better for themselves than any intellectual rendering of the
concept. He finds the colored ranks of candles a touching illustration of personal faith, and of the
worshiper’s connection to the divine. As the sage old drunk says in one of those drive-in horror
pictures, “There’s them that laughs and knows better.” He watches Gloria Visconti light a furtive
candle as fellow church women mob her daughter and the young beau, cheeping about how
lovely and grown up the daughter has become since they last saw her in church. The priest
cannot tell to which saint Gloria's candle is lit, but he could make a guess or two if pressed.
The blazing narthex only hints at the atmosphere in the sanctuary. The rather Gothic shift
in tone from the building’s fairly modern exterior takes some people aback. Under a high vaulted
nave the dusky wood pews are full of well-groomed penitents. All heads are bowed, all tongues
held. Old, young, singles and families, every possible Catholic type is accounted for. Longlegged braziers burn in the corners, throwing spidery shadows over the gathered and giving off
pungent scents of atonement. Firelight tints the clean cream and alabaster wall drapings. The
choir members sit like new statuary, thanks not only to immaculate marble-colored robes but also
to their uncannily rigid poses. In the crucial moments of the mass Fathers Esparza and Teague,
distinguished from the choristers by various cloaks and stoles over their liturgical white, will
look just as stony. Most people expect more joyful attitudes on a feast day, but the group
apprehension is reasonable. Old ways pass into modern times only with a fair amount of friction.
At times Father Esparza envies the unenlightened age of superstition. His chosen profession, for
one, must have been a good deal easier.
The only figures with any real look of vitality are the beautifully carved saints, high along
the walls in elegant niches. Even from below their scale is impressive. Each one stands over six
feet high, greater in size than the most imposing parishioner. For those accustomed to more

compact and reassuring icons, the magnification of saints and angels beyond the human
dimensions invokes due spiritual awe together with a vague sense of unease. This is not to deny
the beauty of their artifice. Several are scarred and twisted in poses of agony, their faces captured
in states transcending righteous wrath and the rapturous anticipation of paradise. Others are
gentler, stooped in submission, but even these have one ferocious quality. Their eyes seem to
burn from within, the spark imbued by an artist of some genius. The rudest among them looks
ten times as alive as anyone offering prayers to them. Ten sit along the main aisles, and the
sanctuary branches off into wings at the front where more might sit visible to the organist and
choir. Great care and expense went into sculpting them, then lighting them just so, and they are
more lively and terrible on this day than any other.
The Blessed Mother oversees all, suspended on an ornate gantry over where the
congregation will gather to take the host. Her expression is meant to show sorrow for the sins of
the world, but the artist capture a vengeful glimmer that has seldom been put on any Madonna
before her. Farther up, on the back wall above the altar, the broken Savior hangs on his cross. He
has the only peaceful countenance of the bunch, though it seems a peace born of mortal
exhaustion and despair.
The processional seems to swell up from the ground, bearing the priests and holy retinue
of staff wavers and standard bearers like a shallow current. Often he can pick a familiar face
from the congregation as they turn to watch, but for now all thoughts are on fervent and ceaseless
prayer. The bright majesty of the opening hymn, “Ye Watchers and Ye Holy Ones,” gives Father
Esparza the brief sensation of a king entering court. One glance at the figure of Mary looming
above humbles him right back out of it. Fearing another bronchial fit, he only mouths the hymn
as he walks. Beside him, Feather Teague looks this way and that in apprehension. He has

attended fewer than a dozen Holy Saints masses, and never before has there been such a tremor
of anxiety among the flock. The choristers are in good voice for the day, but through long
familiarity Father Esparza can hear their nervous lilts and faltering notes.
A feeble hand, no stronger than a breeze, brushes against Father Esparza’s robe, and
turning to look he sees a sallow woman. There is pain in her eyes and the marks of some recent
illness on her brow. She begs him silently for a special blessing, a scene from a medieval tableau
where the wretched beg favors of the holy in open streets. Or like a pop star trying to move
through a frenzied crowd of fans. He manages to touch the tip of her reedy finger before being
swept along in time with the hymn. Other eyes seek him, asking his intercession for unspoken
griefs and sins. He feels a shiver go up him. Father Teague extracts his wrist as gracefully as
possible from the grip of a young lady expecting a child. He mutters something in a soothing
tone, stopping her from placing his hand back on her belly. Already the carefully wrought order
of worship shows signs of breaking down.
Everyone settles down a bit when the priests reach the front and begin their invocations.
The ushers patrol the sea of expectant faces, specially instructed to maintain peace and intercept
anyone bolting for the front. These people know the routine as well as any deacon or priest, but
the peculiar nature of the day taps a primal fear of being overlooked or ill dealt with. They fear
that with so many voices raised, only those who demand special attention stand a chance of
satisfaction. No argument Father Esparza has tried over the years can combat this mindset. It is a
matter of human instinct.
The first reading comes from the Revelation of John, a stark portrait of the apocalyptic
landscape as seen by the redeemed who gather before the throne of judgment. It shocks them all
into appropriate silence, and Father Esparza has nearly let his guard down by the second hymn. It

is one of his favorites, “Blest Are The Pure In Heart,” but then the rising animation of the
congregation begins running at odds with the cheerful song of praise. Parishioners are pushing
their way to the ends of the aisles, hoping to inch closer to the altar and take the sacrament before
their neighbors. Children are picking up on the anxiety. They whine and squirm against their
mothers. Father Esparza’s eyes drift upward to the beautiful rose window. On its inside is a
protective grid of iron railings, mounted on the advice of the board of deacons. That Father
Teague has not yet commented on this feature shows how much he has left to learn.
By the time Father Teague gives the Gospel reading, the place is getting unruly. Ushers,
tired of urging those standing in the aisles to sit, focus on those becoming actively disruptive
with their cries for mercy and favor. Father Esparza signals his fellow priest to speak up and
ignore the ruckus. Near the back, he sees a handful of people slipping out the exits, quaking with
fright and emotional overload. They cross themselves with repentant shame, but clearly do not
feel up to the scene that will follow.
As Father Esparza struggles to make his homily on the Beatitudes heard, he spots the first
hints of movement from above. He signals the acolytes to bring out the incense early. The folks
in the pews are not the only restless ones. He rattles off a tangent about the Mount of Olives,
watching the two young altar boys haul the smoking cauldron on the golden chain between them.
It is a special preparation, noxious and peppery in contrast to the usual sweetness of offertory
incense. Its secrets is kept in apocryphal texts not freely available. He expects the smoke to play
hell with his cough, but ever since the mass began he has felt an extra measure of strength in his
voice. The congregation, liberally fogged by the ministrations of the altar boys, rub their eyes
and try to suppress their coughing. Father Teague sneezes, watching with some alarm, but Father
Esparza gives him the sign to stay calm as he wraps up the homily. There is no more delaying to

do.
They begin the order of communion, blessing the host as the chimes ring for the miracle
of transubstantiation. Father Esparza's keen senses pick out the fleshy scent creeping from the
basket that held bread a moment ago. The acrid copper smell in the chalice pricks the nose so
that not even Father Teague can miss it. The elder priest bids the shoving crowd to come forward
at last, to eat of the flesh and drink the blood, and to continue the prayers to their chosen saints.
The first three rows of pews have emptied when the first heavy shadow passes over. Saint
Michael, mighty archangel and protector of those in battle, leads the charge as expected.
Whirling his deadly sword, he makes a sound like an airborne invasion. Saint Silvia, patron of
expectant mothers, is first to challenge him. Swooping from underneath with all the passion of
the prayers burning in her name, she swipes with a hard hand to check Michael's flight. They
slash at each other, snarling. While she has the upper hand, mothers in all stages of pregnancy
rush at the priests, begging personal blessings. Meanwhile the wives, brothers and families of
soldiers at war push past to have themselves blessed.
Saint Cajetan of the unemployed and Saint Regina of the poor attack Saint Raphael. A
gash opens in the side of the archangel, nothing serious for a patron of healers, and he defends
himself savagely. Below, those troubled by grievous illness nearly brawl with those who lack
funds for their care and the means to get any. Saint Eurosia, invoked against deadly storms and a
figure of particular concern during a record year of east coast hurricanes, soars too close to the
fray and topples from her flight pattern. In frenzy she nearly snatches up the tenors from the
choir, but the spicy haze of protective incense checks her. With the cry of a scalded thing she
claws her way up the wall, scoring the expensive inlay bordering the walls. Father Esparza
expects her to hang or hover there, but in her fury she punches right through the ceiling. Wood

and plaster shower down from the yawning hole as Eurosia vanishes into the sky. Father Teague,
his instinct coming at the right time, rushes to shepherd others out from under the falling debris.
Father Esparza keeps focus as best he can, continuing to deal out communion to those who have
not fled in terror. The younger priest topples as a piece of ceiling beam strikes him on the head.
His chalice goes tumbling, the blood of the lamb spattering the heels of those retreating.
Hardy Saint Deicolus, invoked against childhood sickness, whirls in Irish fury against the
pestilential world. His indignant rapture is a cyclone without a path, drawing in other saints for
pummeling when they pass too near. Those mothers-to-be who lean this year on Saint Silvia will
find him a fierce champion in years to come. Saint Tatiana, patron of students, moves to spar
with him. They tear at each other savagely until the contest reaches a bruised and bloody
stalemate.
When it seems that chaos will swallow the church alive, a blood-chilling harpy shriek
brings all beings, human and otherwise, to a stop. The Blessed Virgin, possibly full of grace but
filled with dangerous fury too, spirals downward from her perch. The lesser saints make way for
her lest they be blown aside like dry leaves. She lashes out at Deicolus, hovering close at hand,
and sends him scampering. Then holy Mary beats her wings, blowing the incense clear in great
puffs, so that the saints may come down, their frenzy abated, and tend to their frightened charges.
The young man, the one Father Esparza sized up before the mass, lies prostrate in the
towering shadow thrown by Saint Agnes of Rome. Her eyes and fiery tresses glow with their
own light. His young lady kneels beside him, looking penitent. Mother Gloria stands her ground,
though in an attitude of great respect. The great virgin martyr, pungent with blood and sweat and
the dust of Roman antiquity, surveys them. Any Catholic, any heathen, any fool with one good
eye might guess that this is a woman whom pagan’s fire would not burn. Agnes is patron saint of

the betrothed, which is surely why Gloria lit candles in her name. She hopes Agnes will either
approve or deal the boy a scorching rebuff. When the saint lays her hands on the prone couple,
the touch is so gentle that Father Esparza feels tears. He is not too old and unsentimental to
appreciate a true blessing. Agnes turns away, Saint Pharaildis following close behind her. The
blessed old dame of Ghent is more wizened and severe. Her leathery bosom heaving from hard
battle. She protects the abused and troubled in marriage, no plush job on the spiritual battlefield,
and shoots the young couple a warning look. The saints of the cathedral, even those limping and
bloody from the melee, offer hands of comfort to those who invoked them. Soldiers’ wives weep
on the ropy arm of Saint Michael. Only Saint Eurosia is absent, perhaps flown away to battle the
big storm over Florida hand to hand. Saint Anthony of Padua takes the doddering elderly to his
breast, soothing them as though they were children. Catherine of Siena takes a moment of rest on
the altar steps, looking winded and sorrowful.
By the time the wailing ebbs to a soft irregular chorus of moans, the saints are in their
high places once more. They flex their stiffening joints. Those who have added to old scars rub
the fresh marks of combat. They twitch their wings, letting loose plaster fall away before folding
them out of sight under robes and cerements. Their faces are hardening already. With its purpose
achieved, the life imbued by mass adoration dissipates quickly. The braziers begin to sputter out
as the sky brightens, casting rosy glory through the elegant window. Despite the precaution of
iron railings, one good-sized pane has been smashed out. The light rays from the damaged roof
and the broken window meet on the floor before the altar. Now it is the silent savior's turn to
descend. On the ground he is every bit the towering figure that the saints were, but his aspect is
mild where theirs was fierce. He is all gentleness in the wake of the storm. He moves among the
terrified, laying massive hands upon them with a tenderness only those who see will understand.

The healing begins. Without the need to give a sermon or one of his famous parables, the
kind yet melancholy Son of Man makes the faithful whole. Wounds close. Those badly injured
find their bodies restored. Some who were lame find their steps easier. Some who were feeble
have newfound strength. Some remain unchanged. None are left bleeding or maimed by the fury
of battling saints, but not everyone is fully restored. Some are appointed to bear their present
pain. Their time to be cured will come later, or not at all. They are free to accept this judgment,
or not, as they will.
Of the small number trampled in panic or struck dead by falling stones, most are recalled
to life. A fallen child, wept over by her kneeling father, stirs as if from sleep. One of the
redeemer's better known talents, true, but those looking on make small sounds of amazement. A
few are denied resurrection, loved ones huddling around their prone forms in fresh grief. In the
face of Christ there shines empathy for their hurt, but also a promise.
Father Esparza sees young Father Teague sitting with a dazed expression, as though he
cannot remember where he is. Whether he was only stunned by his injury, or slipped for a few
moments into death and revived in divine mercy, Father Esparza did not see. Whether Father
Teague would know or not is a mystery, but when the time is right they will have a full
discussion of the day’s events. With any luck Father Teague has come to some understanding of
his duties, rather than further confusion.
Saint Joseph, settling in his high roost, shades the permanently departed with his wings.
He is the patron of holy death, his final blessing an assurance that the departed, young and old,
were taken with a purpose in mind. Let those who weep find comfort in it, or not, as they will.
As the savior turns away, pulling himself up with powerful scarred arms to mount his cross once
more, Father Esparza notices the old couple, the Worleys. They slouch in one of the front pews,

arm on loving arm. Their heads hang, hers backward and his against his shoulder, but there is
nothing grotesque about them. In death each wears an expression of blessed ease. They came in
unwavering faith, bearing a life of joy and also of hardships, each with a share of illness on pain
on the account, and Father Esparza is certain that this was the end for which they prayed. Would
Father Esparza dare admit to Father Teague that he nursed a slim hope of falling under Saint
Joseph’s shadow today? He is not so old, really, but not the healthiest horse in the paddock
anymore. Now he will have to hear the test results from his doctor after all. By Tuesday,
Wednesday at the latest, he will be lighting candles of his own to the physician saints, Raphael
and Luke and any others who come to mind. Whether his prayers are made of thanksgiving or of
desperation, he will know soon enough. He knows that no prayer goes unanswered, but answers
come in several forms. As the Gospel of Cable Television teaches us, “Results may vary.”
When time seems to have stopped, the organ takes up the recessional, a real corker for the
occasion by that old Anglican jokester William Walsham How.
For all the saints, who from their labours rest...
As the clerical procession passes into the narthex, the old priest resists the urge to count
which have snuffed out. It is too much like calling the score of a sports match. He thinks of the
battered Saint Catherine, champion of jurors, and predicts a slew of disappointing verdicts
handed down in the next few months, despite her valiant effort.
Some leave the church walking, leaping and singing praises as in the scriptures. Others
trudge silently away in sorrow. The only steady voice in earshot belongs to a mockingbird in the
old courtyard oak. It keeps harmony with the fading organ recessional. A sharp, rhythmic
pounding breaks the peace. A swarm of workers fans out across the church roof. Father Esparza
had them waiting with their ladders for the closer of services. They will not do any heavy work

on the holy day, only patch the hole with a tarp to keep the weather out. There is no telling what
Saint Eurosia might bring back in her wake. It is dizzying work, but Joseph is the patron of day
laborers as well as the dying. Father Esparza trusts that the saint is not too concussed to look
after them.
Outside now, Father Teague has wandered off somewhere to sort out his thoughts. Father
Esparza is over his petty disappointment at having survived another Solemnity. All in all it seems
to have gone well, for some at least. He is conscious of the fresh air in his lungs, and though he
feels a fresh tickle in his throat as he breathes deeply, he is better able to bear it with the hard
work of the day finished. He hums a jazzy hook from Van Morrison, a song about All Saints'
Day in fact, and though he cannot recall the words just now he has all of a sunny afternoon, and a
whole year after at least, to remember them.


