“Is that the sycamore?”
“Exquisite eye you have. The sycamore it is. We ordered this specimen just a couple years
ago and it’s done magnificently in our facility.” The technician turned their head toward
the massive tank, where tree roots expanded and suspended in a hydroponic marvel of
maple domestication. “It is one of our last platanaceae from the old south. They grew by
the banks of riverbeds, from Texas all the way up to Michigan.”
The audience seemed perplexed at the mention of the old territories.
“Hm. Representation Zones Five and Six, as they’re commonly known.”
They seemed to discern that clarification. A small chatter of agreeable understanding arose
from the politburo.
“Yes. The soil remained rich for several millennia until the Euro-descended degraded the
land. They were unseasoned horticulturists and refused to listen to the native people about
how to properly sew the soil.
“We were lucky to have reserved this specimen before the last contravene. Without doing
so, it would have surely been lost.”
“‘Praise be to us, we are all we need,’” murmured one of the attendees. And in unison
response, the politburo echoed, including their technician, “Praise be, for we were all we
had.”
The tech took ahold of the group again: “Follow me. I’ll take you to the branches.” The
sycamore they sampled for visitation was the largest at this facility, although the tech had
heard of larger sycamores and even taller redwoods by way of The Continent, where all
superterraneous plant-life seemed to perform much better — and for good measure. Their
carbon eliminating properties significantly reduced the earth’s surplus. The hydroponic
tanks had worked, despite being viscerally discredited.
The lift would take their group nearly five-hundred feet in the air, where the sycamore
displayed a magnificent structure of offshoots. Although a sycamore at heart, technicians
had grafted a variety of different fruits to its limbs. Their tech explained, “This is the most
successful attempt at multifunctional hydroponic resource in history. You may observe the
plant and even sample the fruit, if you’d like. The lift is available to take visitors to The
Gallows as well, if anyone wants to visit The Playgrounds.”
The group spread out as the tech stood watch. They took an apple and two bananas to eat
while they waited for the group to finish their wandering.

“Excuse me, tech?” A mother and her son had surreptitiously sneaked upon them as they
enjoyed their fruit.
“Yes, ma’am. I apologize, I was enjoying lunch.”
“Please, continue to enjoy, but could you send me and my son to The Gallows
Playgrounds? We’d love to have a look around.”
“Of course, ma’am. Do you need an escort?”
“Oh, we should be fine. We will not remain there long. Could you send us using a time
loop?”
“Most certainly. You will be returned in only a few moments more. Are you ready now?”
“Yes, of course. Jamal, grab an apple and some bananas for us as we travel down. The
loops always bring me hunger… and cramps.”
“Can I get kiwi fruit, too,” the boy asked with a beaming set of deep brown eyes.
“Anything you’d like — just be quick.” Her son scurried away as she pulled the tech to the
side. “Tell me, are the gallows a trigger for us?”
“I would surely hope not,” the technician replied almost jovially. “This facility was built by
us for us. It is not a triggering experience. It is an accurate experience, one in which you
and your son should derive strength and joy from. Many of us have visited before and have
found great pride in it. And with the time loop, you should miss none of the tour, ma’am.
I’ll make sure you’re back to be with the rest of us, where you and your son belong.”
“How kind. This has been an excellent experience thus far and you’ve comforted me, now.
Thank you for that. May I ask, how much time have you spent at The Gallows?”
“Many, many stopgaps, ma’am. It is an unquenchable activity and has been described by
others of us as having ‘endless satisfaction.’”
Her son hurried back with a bunch of fruit folded into his shirt like a makeshift knapsack.
He handed the bananas and an apple to his mother, who deposited them in her satchel,
then pocketed the kiwis, and gave a peach to the tech. “Here you go, Mx. Tech!”
“Thank you, Jamal. This is going to be a great dessert. I appreciate it — have fun at the
playgrounds.”
“Ok let’s go,” his mother prompted, “I’m excited!”

“You will be back with us in only a few short moments. Have fun.” They marched into the
lift as the tech set the machine to deliver the duo into a time loop at The Playground
Gallows and return them, at their leisure, precisely in a moment’s time.
The time loop operates by placing a stopgap on the linearity of temporal progress,
“looping” the precise moment experienced by the traveler. It’s a useful tool in the
occupation of a docent-tech, allowing them to keep on task, in linearity, and to allow each
person to do activities at their own leisure. In fact, the only reason linearity is favored is
because it enhances togetherness and oneness, something the ancestors went without for so
long. It was their most fervent wish for those of us who live now, that our ties would not be
severed and that we freely experience this plane in harmony.
When Jamal and his mother, Editonia, reached the playgrounds, they were greeted by a
large, arching sign which read, “The Gallows Playgrounds at The Sycamore Forest.” A
holographic instructor informed them to leave their belongings inside the elevator and to
follow her very quietly: “Welcome to The Gallows Playgrounds at The Sycamore Forest,”
she stated at just above a whisper. “I’m so overjoyed that you are temporally safe,
unfortunately not all of us are.”
“Are you from now?” Editonia asked, although she was certain how the docent would
respond. Her clothing indicated that she did not exist in this instance of real time. “I am
not. However, I will have to skip pleasantries for now. We have work to do. I have three
tasks for the both of you. The first task will require the two of you to go as a pair. The
second and third tasks will require that I separate you and your son. Is that alright with
you ma’am?”
“Will he be returned to me unscathed?”
“Of course, ma’am. That is our guarantee. If you do exactly as I say, there should be no
problem.” His mother nodded. In this Now, there existed an almost unprecedented level of
trust within the group of us, enough to entrust the life of a child into the infinite jaws of
time.
“Let us begin. There is a mob circling in on one of us in the time called 1895. You are to
free the victim, bring him to me, and deliver justice to those who sought to take his life.
Because we have the benefit of time, you may erect temporal stopgaps whenever you deem
it necessary. To start a temporal anomaly, you’ll need these.” The docent handed them
their tools, items which looked of pocket compasses. “Press the top button to start or stop a
temporal anomaly, it will be extremely useful. When you are ready to return, both of you
will need to double press on the top of the compass and it will return you to Now. Do you
understand?” They both nodded their heads in agreement. “Remember, take no mercy. It
is not to our advantage to be demure. Are you ready?”
Mother and son met eyes, and then faced their guide: “We’re ready.”

She smiled. “Be quick. Be wise. Bring us to Now.” And with that declaration, the forest
grew dark, and the sound of dogs barked somewhere near. The floor no longer composed
of pristine moss, carefully designed by techs, but dry, thorny twigs and leaves of a natural
forest floor. The victim they were there to save quickly rushed by them as they followed
him.
“Wait!” Jamal screamed at the man. “We’re here to help you!”
He stopped running for a second to speak, “You can help me later. We need to go, now!”
And he turned to take off again, just as Editonia grabbed his arm.
“You don’t need to be afraid. We’re here to help. We will rescue you, just stick with us.
How far away are they?”
“They can’t be far now. I’ve been running as fast as I can — ”
A dog lunged out of the darkness at the man, sinking its teeth deep into his arm. Editonia
quickly initiated a temporal stopgap, pausing everything except their new friend, herself,
and Jamal.
“How on earth did you do that?”
“We will explain later, but we need to get you to safety, right after we deliver justice to
your attackers.”
Jamal helped his mother remove the dog from the man’s arm. The vicious creature looked
petrified, as it froze in time unable to move or back. When they released the stopgap, it
scampered away whimpering in terror.
“That should give them a warning,” the man said. “But they won’t heed it. They’re
determined to see me lynched!”
“We promise, you will not be lynched tonight,” Editonia said. “We’re taking you to Now
with us.”
“Shhhh!” Jamal warned, “I can hear them coming.”
A light shone to their back as the mob arrived. “Where’s the n*gger?!”
“You got the rope, Sarah?”
“Yep! A whole field of it! What’s wrong with the dogs, huh? They seem frightened by
something. Should we turn back?”
“Now, I don’t want to ever hear you suggest that again. We are going to kill that n*gger for
looking at you and then we’re gonna watch until he’s dead, you hear me?”

“Yes sir, I just thought — “
“Shut up and hold the damn light. We gotta find this n*gger without the dogs, now. Your
cowardice has made them take after you.” He motioned to the rest of the mob, which
followed in him in obedient pursuit.
Jamal, Editonia, and the man stood quiet in the dark night, waiting for the mob to get
close. And when they could make out their faces and the texture of their clothes by their
lanterns and moonlight, just close enough for their attack, they pressed their compasses
and initiated the temporal stopgap. The three of them moved quickly, without hesitation
and without mercy. The man took the rope from Sarah’s hands and looked her dead in the
eye. “I wasn’t looking at you before, but I sure am now.” He could see a tear stream down
her face. It was one of the only things the technicians had allowed to not be temporally
paused. They took the ropes and divided them up amongst the mob so that all would face
justice — right then and right there.
It was an easy task, being that none of them could fight back, no matter how much they
looked like they wanted to. The techs were sure to provide that speech was also blocked by
the stopgap, making certain that no savvy of the tongue would prompt empathy from us as
justice was being executed. The words of the docent rang loud in Jamal’s head as they did
their work: “Remember, take no mercy. It is not to our advantage to be demure.” And he
continued to work until all the mob was suspended, with rope fastened around each neck,
ready for the stopgap to end and for justice to be served.
The moon stood still, hanging bright in the night sky, watching. Jamal looked at his mom
and they ended the stopgap, as life filled the mob’s bodies again and gravity pulled their
cruel flesh toward the earth.
“We don’t have to stay around for this,” Editonia said. “Let’s go back to Now. We’ll let
them suffer alone.” They did exactly as their guide had stated and, this time, double-clicked
their compasses to return to The Sycamore Forest.
A quiet peace, full of warm light and the soft chirping sound of birds welcomed the heroes
and their new friend back to Now. Their guide was overwhelmed by their success and
greeted the newest member first.
“I have been watching over you, in the countless millennia of timetables, searching for the
right moment to send help. Because you are a part of us, and we’ve always needed you safe.
So, now, safe you are, Jeremiah. Do not worry. Take a moment to rest here. You are with
us now, safe, in The Sycamore Forest.” She turned to Editonia and Jamal. “Thank you
dearly for your help. That was not easy. But tell me, did you have fun? You don’t need to
be shy about expressing your joy. This is a playground after all!”
Jamal piped up, “Are you kidding? That was the best time of my life! We won! We beat the
bad guys! Can we do that again?”

His mother giggled and nodded along with him. “That was fun, I cannot lie. I understand
why The Playgrounds are such a popular spot here!”
“Excellent to hear,” chimed their guide. “Before I send you two on your next quest, come
with me, there is a small ceremony that we must attend too.” The guide led the three of
them to another part of the sycamore where golden gallows, closed off at the knot, hung in
glittering suspension. “This a remembrance site of all of the successful temporal rescues.
We hang these ornaments as a reminder of justice, the victimless gallows which did not
prevail in killing us. I am happy to show you, Jeremiah where yours is, because we knew
you would arrive safely here today. Safety and togetherness are things worth remembering
in pristine gold.”


