I have always said and still believe, the devil is a
beautifully sexy woman with the stamina of a 20 year old. And,
she can talk anyone into anything at all! She's the reason we
all love to play with fire and the reason Alfie Doyle was facing
the cliffs overlooking the George Washington at the Hudson
River.

He hadn't counted on her being as evil as she was stunning,
nor had he ever had a moment's thought that he was going to lose
this one. His game was to make everyone else lose. He was always
the winner, always on top.

Facing the 180 foot drop to the cold watery deathscape below, lyrics from a familiar song floated out of Alfie's


subconscious like an iPod at top volume, ..."I've been searching
for a way out too. And somebody... somebody's looking for you."
It was the song playing that night in the bar. He hadn't been
paying much attention to the DJ, but the words caught his
attention as did the little red dress. He remembered the song
because her timing when the last line was sung struck him as
strangely apt. He wanted to be found that night.

A gust of cold October air pelted him in the face and
he had to blink hard to shake the tears welling in his eyes. The
lights streaming across the George Washington from here looked
ant-like, small and insignificant. He felt like one of them now.

Recalling the first night they ever spent together and
the'

red satin sheets and crushed black velvet sofa sent a

different type of shiver up his spine, but after Teddy, facing
her one more night would be pure evil. He could not get his
imagination to conjure up a single image that frightened him
more, not even the headless body of Teddy laying in the bed next
to her. It was just not possible to be more scared than he was
now.

Given the choice, the river seemed like the best way. A

Liccardi / Short Story / 3

head shot could miss and they could save him. A hanging could go
wrong too and he would be unable to speak the rest of his life.
No, this was the only way. Nobody would ever find the body.

He had no idea how he had gotten here, to this very spot
overlooking the GWB or how something as innocent as a missed
call could have turned out so badly but, as he prepared himself
for the very short flight into eternity, he could not help but
smile at the last three weeks of his life. He had made some damn
good choices and slept with the hottest woman on Earth,
literally. The sex alone almost made the rest of his life worth
it but not Teddy's. He hadn't gotten even a single moment of sex
out of her before she killed him.

The sound of heels on gravel snapped him back from the red
satin bedroom sheets and the feel of her mouth on him. First in
pleasure then in pleasurable pain as she bit into the skin. She
said she wanted to taste his blood and he laughed off the joke
rolling in his head about vampiric first dates and badly written
fiction. He had definitely smoked too much weed and seen too
many movies, but he thought to question why this woman wanted to
sleep with him.

Liccardi / Short Story / 4

His life had never been cliche' before that point in late
October overlooking an icy cold death, so why the hell would it
be one now? Alfie stepped an inch closer to his fate. The loose
gravel chuffing and spilling out over the blackness; it sounded
inviting, almost.

"And where do you think you're going, Stud?" The voice was
ice on a crystal goblet.

"I was thinking of taking a few days off. We've been side
by side non stop since that night in the bar. Well, tonight was
Teddy's turn, wasn't it?" His thick, almost caricatured New York
accent was even strong when he was scared. She smiled and he
knew he had gotten her attention.

"A guy needs a recharge from time to time, Babe. I was
gonna leave you a note but then I figures I would see you on the
other side, no?

Alfie was strangely calm considering his current
predicament. She was quick; he hadn't counted on that. There
wasn't enough time to be nervous, not now.

Liccardi / Short Story / 5

"Speaking of disappearing, Doll, how in the hell did you
get up here without making a sound? I didn't see the car
approach and I know you walk from The Upper West Side in them
heels." Alfie pointed at her feet.

"So you finally figured it out, have you? They say all the
pretty ones are as dumb as rocks. I guess you are proving a lot
of people wrong tonight, Lover."

Alfie blinked and she was suddenly holding a lit cigarette
in her right hand. The smoke curling out of her mouth into the
breezy October Sky. She hadn't been smoking when she arrived.

"Why don't you come back in my direction? I have my new
Jimmy Choo's on. I don't really want to chase after you unless I
have to." Her tone was the only playful thing about this
evening.

"I really don't want to have to, Baby. Come back and let me
make it up to you." She smiled and Alfie felt his direction
begin to reverse.

For a moment, he thought about her exquisite figure and

Liccardi / Short Story / 6

that alluring smile that stopped people cold when she walked
into a room. He could feel himself starting to take notice of
her body again. He laughed out loud, a short stiff sound that
lacked almost all humor. Alfie's mind raced about, looking for a
reason. Now that he was here on the edge, he needed a reason why
she killed his best friend. Before he went, this had to make
more sense.

"Like you did to Teddy?" Alfie laughed again, this time the
sound was louder, more determined to be something other than
fear.

"What's so funny, Baby? Tell me a joke." She exhaled again
allowing smoke out through her mouth and nose obscuring her eyes
for a moment. The break gave Alfie enough presence of mind back
to ponder this unanswered questions.

"You wouldn't get it, Doll face. It's one of dem private
things." He looked up in time to see her expression darken, just
for a split second, then back to beautiful again.

"Tell me, Alfie, before I lose my good humor. You don't
want that, do you? She smiled again, playing with him. Alfie

Liccardi / Short Story / 7

said nothing but she continued as if he had asked the question
in his mind.

"Teddy didn't understand the thing between us. He got
tiresome and I lost my good humor with him. It didn't end well,
although I am almost sorry you had to see him like that in the
end. I was trying to be subtle, baby, but he lost his head at
the last second." She said in giggling tones.

"You see Toots, my mother caught me messing with a gal or
two back in the day. She used to say I didn't know asses from
elbows." He laughed again.

"She caught me one night when I thought she was out playing
Bingo with the Ladies Auxiliary. The Girl and I was rockin' and
rollin so hard, I never heard her come home." Alfie looked at
her with a brilliant smile and he told her the joke.

"She always told me this ting was gonna get me in with the
devil one day." Laughing again, he pointed at his crotch. Tears
were welling in his eyes from the wind as he waited for her to
lose it.

Liccardi / Short Story / 8

"Baby, cmon over and let me see for myself. That little
monster of yours always gets my attention. Shouldn't let it go
to waste in that cold river." She pouted and he felt his jeans
tighten a bit more.

"Let me help you with that thing?" She giggled and inhaled
sharply taking in smoke from a cigarette she hadn't even brought
to her lips. The glamour of her was wearing off, the closer he
got the truth and to his own death.

He could almost taste her perfume now. A mixture of poison
and sex, all playing on her skin like moonlight on river water.
She was animal lust on two legs and she was deadly. As she began
to move forward, Alfie's smile vanished but not his erection.

"Stay right there, Adriana." Alfie commanded with a
sternness he didn't feel. In fact, the only thing he felt was an
ache in his groin and a need to wrap his arms around her waist.
He would have let jump into his arms and slide down his chest,
placing his in her breasts, just to inhale her scent. He would
have ripped her dress off right there and continued on as if
nothing happened tonight.

Liccardi / Short Story / 9

He struggled against the thought of her, moving back
another small step. She was persistent though, taking her tiny
little steps forward, closer to catching him before he could end
this nightmare. Alfie's will was giving out as his desire to
have her increased. The weight of her, the smell of them
together was maddeningly close and he was ready to give in.

Adriana moved closer, not speaking a word, just holding out
her hand. She wanted him to come to her, wanted him to give in
completely of his own free will. That would have made the entire
betrayal sweeter for the taking. Alfie could see it in her eyes;
a blazing, laughing impish grin danced between those electric
blue balls. She was going to win! He could feel his will
draining, it was nearly spent now and she was going to have him!

A crow flew past the cliff's edge, cawing and making him
jump. Alfie could hear every flap of the birds wings, the wind
through each of its slick black feathers as it passed by them.
Time had slowed to a movie-like crawl now. The crow went on its
way to doing whatever crows do at night.

Alfie felt the things shift just then. She had looked up at
the crow, only for a moment, but that was enough to break her

Liccardi / Short Story / 10

concentration and give him his out.
Alfie took the chance to escape before he completely gave
in. He turned, inches from the edge, and ran as hard as he
could.

The journey had been long, but this trip was shorter than
he expected. At once, the club where they met, the weeks of
dining and fast cars and money being spent for privacy and for
exquisite sex were all playing through his head in rapid
filmstrip-like progressions. No sounds, just the feel of each
touch, each night together. The caresses and embraces; the
nights living out every one of his fantasies all flashed by him
now, but the scenes and the his surroundings were all quiet and
windless. He felt the sensation of falling all around him as him
memories played out and then a sudden stop into nothingness but
the smell of her perfume and clean silk. Alfie had jumped to his
death.

"God damn you, Alfie!" She spat as she approached the
cliff's edge and looked out over the blacked flat glass surface
of the river. She looked up and spotted the crow about half a
mile beyond where she had seen it and uttered some greasy
guttural word that sound dirty.

Liccardi / Short Story / 11

The crow glided along some unseen thermal current for a
moment longer. It let out a single loud and painful caw then
dying instantaneously, the dark body retaining its wing-spread
shape as it plummeted toward the river.

Adriana smiled as she watched the bird's corpse dip below
her sight line. She was thinking of Alfie and how he had taken
her by surprise again. It was the reason she was so attached to
him now. He had surprised her that night in the bar. She
couldn't read him like the others or control him but was drawn
to him. He was something of a challenge.

She had come across his kind before, descendants of the old
times, warriors of the light who always kept her and her kind at
bay. It wasn't often though that she came across one that had
'gone bad', straying from the light and playing the game without
any rules or anyone looking out for him.

Ordinarily killing his kind out of hand would have been
easy but this one seemed different, special somehow. She wanted
to push him, play with him and see just how far gone he really
was.

Liccardi / Short Story / 12

Back at the cliff's edge, she looked down into the
darkness. She hadn't thought he was man enough to jump. Counted
on the fact that they would be back in her apartment right about
now having incredible sex. He wasn't gone yet, though. If all
had gone according to her plan, she would be seeing him again
soon.

"What a bitch!" She trailed off, speaking to nobody.

She

was exasperated beyond belief and ready to kill again. In fact,
the crow was hardly enough to settle that rage but she supposed
it would do for now.

"So much for undying devotion." She said as she turned from
the cliff without giving it another thought. All that time and
effort, nearly wasted on a man who would rather die in a river,
than for her.

"They used to cower in fear; do anything I wanted. How I
miss the smell of all that fear." She inhaled deeply as she
walked back to the Hudson Greenway, crunching through dead
autumn leaves in her blistering red Jimmy Choos.

Liccardi / Short Story / 13

The car, an onyx black Camaro with red pinstripes running
its length, was sitting where she left it. It was running but
nobody would have seen it even if they had driven right through
it. The sight of her car and the thought of Alfie gave her a
deep pang of sexual need. All those memories...

Her attention wasn't on the car now, but on her guest.
Someone had 'made the journey home', as they do say where she's
from and it was time to get him back. She couldn't wait much
longer.

Adriana, ruler of all things dark and evil opened the car
door sat down, but instead stepped through a gateway into a
place very few ever get to see while alive; it was her bedroom.

"To take one's own life, such a bold statement from one of
the fallen."

The lights in her Boudoir were low, giving off

just enough of a glow to see a bed, pillows and a body.

In the end she had nearly lost him when he somehow made a
run for the cliff's edge. The last leap was magnificent as he
bore down on the end of his life and eternity in hell. She
wondered if he knew what his fate was to be once he had taken

Liccardi / Short Story / 14

that leap? It struck her as odd that he was trying so hard to
get away. She smiled to herself.

"Little bastard, almost ruined my day and my shoes." She
growled out loud. "Its a good thing I always get what I want.
Isn't that right Alfie?" She smiled and turned the lights up,
looking at Alfie's shocked expression as the light blinded him
for a moment.

Laying on a life-sized replica of her red Jimmie Choo heels
was

Alfie Doyle; card shark, ladies man and former suicide.

Dressed and ready to party.

Alfie was still alive, although how? He felt for every
nerve ending in his body, waiting for the scream of pain that he
thought accompanied a death like this but there was none. In
fact, all he could feel was silk sheets and crushed velvet
pillows. His arms began to ache and he realized they were cuffed
to the shoe shaped bed.

"I know you would tell me how beautiful and sexy I am if
you could. Hell, you would even thank me later as we made love,
but I took the liberty of gagging you. There will be plenty of

Liccardi / Short Story / 15

time for you to compliment me. After all, we have an eternity in
here to share our feelings.

She winked at Alfie and giggled.

The sound having the same effect on his drive as it always did.

"I see you have a lot of questions, Baby. I know I would
but they can wait. I will answer the one that's the most
pressing. How did you get lucky enough to end up here, in my
bedroom? For eternity?" She giggled again as she moved closer to
her side of the bed, shedding clothing along the way.

"Well, Alfie, you died when you jumped. Its that simple.
Once you take your own life, it belongs to me and I can do
whatever I want with it." She trailed off, letting the truth of
what he had done hang in front of him for just a moment.

"I get to keep it and this," she waved her hands around the
space, "is what I am doing with it." Her smile was bright white
and clearly joyful.

Alfie began to thrash and pull at his chains, trying
desperately to get away from this woman, this devil, once and
for all. He couldn't believe he had been so foolish.

Liccardi / Short Story / 16

"I see not every part of you is against another night in
the sack with the queen bitch herself." She laughed, stroking at
his crotch in his pants.

Tearing them off in strips with each

touch.

"I'm gonna do this a lot, too."She said as she grabbed his
manhood and squeezed.


