For starters, it was devastation, wide as the continent, harried, hurried, invasion from the depths
of all significant bodies of water, those landlocked and those not, come shoreward a titanic force
and right behind it the New People with unheard of powers, suppression their game, all-out
suppression. The land rocked with changes,
Old prospector and traveler Alec Perfed, separatist for almost half a century, wide-eyed like his
known two blue oceans, broad shouldered and thick-chested, still a dreamer of the old days
before the New People arrived in mysterious clouds of fog and mist and wide-water upheavals
from wherever in the semi-darkness of one insidious evening, had been absolutely delighted and
surprised to discover a tree in a crevice in the Teton Mountain Range.
He hadn’t seen a tree in two years.
He measured time on a piece of an old pool cue stick stuck in a leather sheath on his mule, and
was more than a month of marks into the third year when he first smelled the tree and then
spotted it in the slight crevice where it had started and leaped slim and desperately high seeking
the rays of the glorious sun, vitality moving two ways at once, at once powerful and pleading. He
admired the birth and growth of the tree against all the odds. Promise, pride, the sudden burst of
passion in him said it would be, forever, a story to be told,
For three days of celebration he sat against its trunk, sipping water from his canteen, sharing
drips and drops of it with the base of the tree, loving again the connection, his mind loaded with
thoughts now and then coming fuzzy, now and then choir clear, as the rhythm of the tree’s life
surged through his tissue and muscle, graced his bones, said that love still lived inside, that the
Old People still had a chance at revival, survival.

Above all, the tree was a Godsend, a message so dear it almost exploded in him, the charge long
and lengthy and full blown in his frame. On a sudden spurt of energy and mind, he observed
from several viewpoints, each one quite decisive, how special this tree was, an oak appearing
like no oak ever revealed. From hidden images that deployed in various parts of his mind, he saw
every other oak as hunchbacked as Quasimodo, broken-armed, distorted, a simple convolution of
growth, limbs everywhere awry, twisted, cross-bowed and cross-linked, crooked as a thief bent
on awful errands and commissions, proud, stubborn, muscular against nearby pines and maples,
making way in the face of all the deciduous and coniferous allies of the forest, king of many
lawns and lays of land, trunk solid as the nose-guard of a Super Bowl winner, residing under the
hide of a rhinoceros or crocodile, armor-borne, impenetrable, immoveable, yet at periodic
instances might provide yield.
Yet this lone tree was different by every degree: dream-like, sylphic, the silken, long limbs
stretching far overhead, hunger's reach for passion of performance, a ballet dancer caught on
stage by a photograph in a second of maneuver, a brief copy of her elasticity and grace, her limbs
on one tiptoe and stage-oriented for this single and lone observer, and inarguably fateful from the
outset of observation.
For a moment he felt as special as the lone tree stretched out for its life, its very cause ... of
which, it also said, Perfed had lone control over its existence.
Out of that mind set, in a quandary, arguments in range, he shifted again, distractions beginning
to work him endlessly. Coming in soft cushions of thought, in self arguments, were other
wonders and awes; he missed his wife Melody and the country songs that had mated them in the
first place, him coming from the northern edge of the Atlantic, her carrying the heart of
Nashville, the guitar in her hands, nearly the best of late evening gifts. He had not seen her since
the big wave came crushing and taking all he owned, but he remembered how she sang her

songs, every one of them; loaded with suspense and promise for the late evening, the middle of
the night, dawn pulsing with the same arrangements.
If he met a solitary soul in the mountain, his personal introduction would begin on a simple note
and turn complicated when any conversation took place. Too often people held back, trust thin in
such thin ranks. There were times, however, when Perfed was received elatedly and he'd reply,
“I’ve traveled a long ways in my journeys, just as you have. I read that on you as though you
sport labels.”
He’d clear the air immediately, tie past connections to that other world they once had. “With me,
I came from the murky waters of the Atlantic where my home was washed away on that first
savage night on insular Nahant, now an island once more, Lynn off to the stern. Never a splinter
of that warm abode seen again by me. The first great wave, water warmer than ever, at 90 plus
degrees they tell me, had knocked a hole in the foundation of the house and took out of action
every element with life, force or power by any and every connection, sending all to smithereens,
and my Melody on an errand, beyond help, out on the causeway or at Lynn shore. Oh, we later
heard stories that gained momentum about mountainous eruptions in the midst of all oceans and
larger lakes, all at once as though a button had set them off, and surging landward with deadly
force and steadiness, some waves, like tsunamis, standing up and rolling 40 and 50 feet high to
the nearest coasts, nothing less than obliteration in their wakes. My home, on a ledge of rocks, its
thousand pieces, went easy to that frenzy.”
His head would shake with the recalled visions.
“I lit out of course, my wife gone, no one to hold me. In my early roaming, Maine-ward, New
Hampshire, Vermont, New York, Pennsy, heading west, I skirted around places like
Winnipesaukee, Moosehead, Sebago, Erie and the lower Great Lakes, waters presenting any

significant size where far shores disappeared in vaguest mists, where new eruptions might occur.
I subsisted on brook or stream fish at first, found or stolen goods cached in secret places by
people who had already passed in the first year of The Extermination where The New People
gathered in clusters waiting to break out and claim all the Earth.
"Oh, they were inventive, The New People, besides the way they had of killing trees, cutting
lumber laser-like, a lightning-fast process, and that hideous supplanting power that took hold of
whole cadavers of Old People and made new models in their new way, slaves for their bidding,
like building new homes, working tirelessly, brought back from death to be drones or
automatons. Frightening it was in every instance, like made-over mortuaries serving up plain
servitude. At close looks I saw faces and the frames of old friends and relatives adapted into the
new system, minus all the old connections. Each one of “the recovered” had an alpha-number
permanently scribed on their foreheads; such marked brothers, fathers, mothers, sisters and all
along family lines are believably never welcomed by Old People no matter how deep their retreat
is, most of them being in mountain ranges where the New People don’t tread unless in army
numbers, huge squadrons of them, much the way of the really old Flying Squadrons. That you’ve
seen yourself, aye? It seems incredulous that they have their own fears. Think seriously on such a
revelation. It could be a spoiler for us if we ever discover what it is, find the hook, the knockout
punch, the great persuader.”
On this particular day, the third day after he discovered the tree, he was ready for likable
company, social hunger prodding him, beating at him That's when a clanking but familiar sound
told him he’d definitely have company ... a clatter of steel hooves on a rocky surface at a slow
pace; "Time in no hurry to get any place on," as they might say. Not in weeks had he spotted
anybody, and that last time across a wide canyon, the sun showing the man off as another
wanderer of the land, nearly sequestered away, daring for a bit of sunshine, changing skin color

with a new tint, feeling different about himself, at least trying to. But Perfed didn’t hail the
fellow. Unknown company up here had to be received with strict trepidation; perhaps that figure
might be a scout for a "flying squadron."
With rapidity things happened closer to him on this occasion, air changing beforehand, a signal
old as the past, ties coming along with it, seen, negotiated, connected. The sensations of past
days possessed him with peculiar strength; at times he thought it to be loneliness. At other
moments the old powers coming back to him by slim degrees. The old boisterous odors he loved
and rosy scents in a new place, the quiet adventures, the soft romances of new days, the wet
dribbles of love, hope eternal.
It all said this day was different too, as the sound grew louder. The first notes of a guitar chord
slipped their way to him and he swore he knew the song but could not bring the name up. Then
came few words that captured the song title for him, one of Hank Williams 'song, a haunting
from so far away and so far back it numbed him: "I'm a rollin' stone all alone and lost/For a life
of sin I have paid the cost/When I pass by all the people say/Just another guy on the lost
highway/Just a deck of cards and a jug of wine/And a woman' lies makes a life like mine/Oh the
day we met, I went astray/I started rolling down that lost highway."
The mule appeared first as it rounded a bulging ledge on the face of the cliff, an oblong and dark
head with aerial ears, and then Perfed saw the man suddenly waving a guitar overhead with one
hand and with the other hand tap the mule on the head with a thin wooden prong, surely a longheld souvenir from the lumber wars. This was followed by a clear canyon-echo voice, his old
acquaintance, Thorne Moraise, calling out, “Alec, I spotted you from a mile back. Any word yet?
I’m anxious as hell for news and I’ll settle for good or bad. Ain’t talked to nary a soul in three
months and been followin’ your trail for a few days, your mule better’n my old Millie here. I

sure hope you got a change of chew, a candy bar, an apple core. My tooth is pulsing like my
heart. It ain't right. None of this is right, but we keep movin' on.”
Another chorus of "Lost Highway" leaped off cold stone and warmed Perfed's heart, saving grace
with timbre in it; moody and melodious and marvelous.
For openers, in cordial meetings, Moraise was boisterously hale, looked hard as nails, offered a
solid smile when the gap closed between two men, and then, as though he might have forgotten,
finally touched his hand over his heart in the truest Old People’s acknowledgment. It was the old
sign in a new place.
That simplest of gesture carried reams of belief in it, of promise, the salute, the announcement
saying with its one tap, “All will one day be good again, good again for the Old People, the
friendly ones, not the new ones, those alien critters from wherever the Hell they had come from,
and bound to take over all of Earth.”
The simple but encouraging tap on the chest, the way it was conveyed, was a gesture from those
who intended to enjoy this Earth down to the last grain, the last blossom, the last fallen leaf, if
such be the end, the hungry hanging on, the thirsty bent on digging new wells, the loneliest of
them waiting in the new kind of mountains for the return of good Old Mother Earth to dance her
old tune, swing to her own rhythms again, after the momentous swings of the Ages ... Stone,
Bronze, Iron, Medieval, Industrial, however they hit her wide parts, her continents, islands, and
outlandish elsewheres.
Perfed replied, tapping his own chest, past images floating magically and instantly between the
two as though a movie provided the connection. Those two saw both oceans cupping them, green
hills rushing up at snow-capped peaks, Florida jungles and Utah forests, the rocky Maine coast
where endless blue stones stood in the way of the capricious seas, the sand dunes of the outer

Carolinas, Oklahoma oil rigs silent as God could make them, all the places that work, vacation,
war and wandering had taken the pair and their fair brethren of all races, breeds, medal winners,
leaders of some sort at one time, and the down and out, often quite like a close-to-losing fighter
in the ring, on his knees, his head fuzzy, questioning a rally finding way, and wondering if it
would be worth it?
“What’s happenin'?” Moraise said. I’m glad to know why you’re out here. You never did say the
other times we met, too much goin' on then. I always look to my own protection on trail meets
but knew it was you.”
“Aye, I did see some of ‘the converted,’” replied Moraise. “It forced me never to address or hail
anybody encountered in the mountains, and there were some like me, until I saw the face of that
person, determined him New People with the old form, a cadaver come back by some awesome
power we might never understand.
“What else is goin’ on?” Moraise said.
Perfed motioned to him and said, “I want to show you something special, a piece of promised
brightness, I swear,” and took him to where the tree, a normally rugged oak with clutches of
fingers at odd ends and loose, grown up tall and forcefully graceful in its niche of stone, its
growth forced long and lean and glorious by its slim, prison-like location.
Surprise and glee grasping him, Maraise’s face lit up like a lamp on an old telephone pole, the
glow honest and his whole frame showing a sudden freshness as though a target had been
reached, he and his mule coming to a sudden stop at sight of the tree. Quick judgment said its
roots apparently had lunged down through a rocky path to find water, to keep it alive under
awed, enforced circumstances, and allow it to grow straight for the clouds in its narrow confine,
a stretching reach for God's grandeur.

Moraise, aware of a momentous discovery, exclaimed loudly, “What the hell are we going to do
with it, Alec?” His hand rubbed the bark like it was his lost woman, teased it, waited for
response, his eyes closing with lost dreaminess, a shiver grasping him with more old stuff,
making him spit out to his friend, "It never goes away, Alec. That's one thing we own and that's
for sure."
“We’re going to chop it down and stack the splits.” Alec said, “before ‘they’ get it. Then we’ll
fire up a good blaze. We’ve seen thousands and thousands of trees dropped by New People’s
laser application, whole forests in a day, and lumbered in mind-shaking speed. Hell, every one
we’ve ever seen, or used to see. If we look down from here we don’t see a single one, This is it,
Thorne. This is it. All of them cut before any of us could take a deep breath. We’re going to
celebrate it, this fantastic new discovery, this lone tree, piece by piece. We’re starting a
celebration of an odd sort."
With that declaration, in agreement, their axes were swinging, biting, chewing at the tree, the
old rhythms quickly found by the pair. Back they went to the days of rising oil prices, purchasing
wood-burning stoves, venturing into forests and hillside growths, into neighbors' yards for falling
apple trees, cutting, splitting logs, stacking them in the yard, in the wood box, fighting against
the increase of prices, loving the woods and forests and the comradeship of two or more ax men,
at least two vehicles, two gas saws, such as Jonsereds and Husqvarnas, never alone in the woods,
fishing on the way home, beer in cans, cheese sandwiches, now and then catching a trout in Pye
Brook or under Thunder Bridge on the Ipswich River, temporary illusions of heaven, labor's
payoff and contentment.
The good days.

It was Perfed’s immediate decision right from the beginning of the discovery; this first tree seen
in two years to be sacrificed for the old folks. From across the valley he hoped they’d come.
Some of them to be Necessary Couples, those bound by oath to help the other as long as they
lived, arrangements taking the place of marriage.
Perfed started a fire with a single match put to the shavings they’d sliced off one stick of wood.
The welcomed warmth promised that it would last only a few weeks at most, but, as suspected,
the thick, dark curl of smoke began drawing Old People off hidden places in peaks and high
trails of the Tetons. They came, dozens of them the next day, to share the mystery, to warm their
hands, to smell the smoke, to hear the old stories, a line of them emanating from peaks where
new sleep spots had been located, hideaways for seekers, hunters, mountain prowlers, at times
moving thin as shadows, those who could be mistaken for opponents counted on semiinvisibility.
The strange realization come to many of them in the gathering, as Perfed spoke, that individually
and collectively the New People would not live in Old People’s houses. “That habit, that trait,
that unconditional issue, bothers me endlessly,:" he said, "for there’s a reason built in it, a fright,
an imperfection that might be harmful, frightful or infectious to New Folks. From this knowledge
we might establish a weapon against them. Most all the trees across the land have been laser-cut
as we’ve seen and lumbered for new homes in such a speedy manner it seemed unbelievable.”
As he talked he fondled the bit of seed in his pocket.
Perfed went on to tell those gathered at this singular fire, “I made some experiments on my own,
like tossing a handful of loam into a crevice or a cranny in the middle of a rock pile and grass’d
grow while I was looking at the spot.” And it all would end in his firm belief, “If we hang on

long enough, we can beat them because there is something we had in our homes that frightens
the New People to extreme measures.”
Heads began to nod at that declaration; there had to be a way to confront them, beat them at their
game.
When the fire would burn out, the last flame and ember dark as earth, the word on this tree had
to go with those Old Folks when they finally departed from the final embers in guarded secrecy.
The news, they trusted, might refortify at least some of the other Old People out there, but of
course had to be kept from the New People.
Now, after the huge and momentous run-off of trees by the New People, old folks like Perfed
could stand on a peak and not know the country out in front of them, not a tree in sight, the old
Earth in a new curve out there, almost uncompromising, bald, bare, barren, a sight to frighten
bold men. It was not the former land, comprised of places for animals, insects, the buzzing bee,
the happy, lonely men like Perfed who could live and love necessarily the solitary life. But it was
land without trees in succession like the pugnacious oak, dwarfed, weathered, and limbed to a
kind of hell and back, or the gathered cottonwood centering their oases, or the pine and Douglas
fir being the dress and gown and undergarments for a succession of hills and climbs for miles
into and past the heat of horizons. Those horizons, every which way on Earth from most points,
had always broadcast a calling for them as if they belonged over there instead of here, out there
where squaw pine and deadwood lay waiting for fire watches, campfires, coffeepots at
outlandish morning accents a man could live on during long nights of wait.
What they saw was different.
What came in place was a land of green lawns that ran for endless miles, the grass taking hold as
if by a new magic and the oxygen produced from it was richer and cleaner than early oxygen.

Grass grew, it appeared, in any clutch of earth no matter the size of the plot or the usual
locations.
And far off, vaguely seen from the peaks, New People’s tinned roofs reflected the specialized
energies, the new communities glistening under the sun, fresh collections almost every day,
spreading across the land, dooming what once was America to a particular and peculiar land of
reflections, rays, glinting signs of an unknown energy from a strange source.
But no more trees.
None of them knew a seed had been cached in the pocket of Perfed’s greatcoat. Of course, they’d
want to make a ceremony of planting that seed and many of them would volunteer to stand watch
as long as they could, until Kingdom Come, as some of them would obviously vow, still being
cut the way they came into life in the old days.
Realizing the size of his audience, and to what extent he could sway them, agitate any of their
complacencies, Perfed added to his speech: "There is going to be a war, perhaps a long war, but
you must realize what I believe is going to happen.... Even though the New People are cutting all
the trees to get lumber for thousands of new houses, they have no idea that once a tree comes
down and the resultant lumber is used in construction, the first thing that arises will be the
microbes and germs that the lumber brings with it right at the construction level. What they are
afraid of is what they'll introduce to new buildings on their own; the first bit of dust tromped in,
dropped food particles, shoe detritus from outside walks, will begin to infect their new houses.
They are not immune to the extent that we are to the microbes and germs we've come to live
with, as long as we followed decent habits of cleanliness. They really will fall to what they fear
the most no matter how strong they appear, how smart and complicated, the obvious talents they
have, yet are as simple as life."

One man jumped up and said, "That'll be forever. When does the war proper start? What should
we do? I'm itching for action. All of us are tired of hiding out like forever." He balled one fist
and pounded it into the other hand.
"Don't you see it yet?" Perfed said, rolling his eyes, looking outward over the grassy world,
"They are infected as of now. I can feel it. It's bound to happen even quicker than we hoped, and
even the final may take years but it'll be worth every day of it."
He raised one fist in salute and celebration, threw his head back, thrust both arms toward the blue
sky and yelled out his newly favored slogan, "Robin will have Sherwood again," and the hearty,
robust laughter echoed in the mountains all round. Some Old People danced, some sang, the
fever caught up the ranks. The rocky background made it illustrious, notorious, the echoes
running for mile on mile through the circuitous Tetons, as much "Hallelujah" as ever heard.
Before long the infections came, as Perfed vouched, and the New People, in a new hurry, began
to fall flat on their faces as they rushed out of their homes, sick, bitten, ravaged to their worst
fears. At first, when others came to help, they too fell ill and died quickly, with their adopted
servants also immediately returning to their previous pasts. When such losses became unbearable
for them, the New People caved in, panic ensued, and the new civilization was on its way off the
face of Earth as swiftly as it had come.
When one seed sprung loose a tree from Mother Earth, right where Perfed had placed it, other
trees began to grow nearby. The summer months enriched them as did the reach for water. With
their growth assured, the forests started to return, their deep clutches welcomed by the riches of
the land.
Eventually the stories came into the mountains about the final days of victory when all the seas
and all the lakes and large bodies of water built up to new momentous eddies, whirlpools,

vortexes and maelstroms, the water rushing in greater force than seen before. Such violent
changes drew into their whirling hearts all the New People on the face of the Earth. They came,
or were drawn by an enormous power, from every direction and from the longest distances, as if
they too longed to be home again, in that distant place that sent them out in the first instance,
explorers and settlers of another order, another place.
From high in his perch, Perfed looked down as New People's home became inhabited again,
surely by the same unseen old microorganisms after a fashion, and by the Old People in heavy
numbers enjoying new comforts for old bones. The wise men had always determined that there
are many "good" bacteria in homes helping to keep the "bad" germs away. "Helpful
microorganisms," they said, "overwhelmingly outnumber harmful ones. That's what the New
People could not fend off. If you take away too many of the good bacteria it provides bad germs
a chance to increase at a harmful level."
For a thousand years the Earth did not feel the wrath of invasion from another unknown source
and Alec Perfed had long been encased in his favorite out of the way place in the Tetons. Once
again he knew Melody's songs coming out of the Deep South, finding him for odd moments,
awed times at old Nahant, but usually in the Tetons where he'd found his place of rest.


