Sometime last summer I took to walking around the block when the evening fell
cool and heavy on the harbor and the streetlights stood, halo-clad, like pennies in the
palm of the night.
I’d head out after dinner with the excuse of the need for an after-dinner-stroll.
Really, it was just to be inside the cool cocoon of the nighttime and the allure of being
enveloped in seaside airiness, which felt so much like a kiss to your skin after such hot
days.
After I fumbled down the stairwell of our upper apartment (we never did replace
the light bulb once it burned out) to find the cool ground beneath my naked feet and to
inhale the first breath of such distinct saltiness, I would mosey past the garden where the
fuzzy lupine pods poked in all directions in the lateness of July.
This was a pleasant time.
Emerging into the night.
Letting go of the story of the daytime.
This was the time that the song of myself would fade out like the dissolving
boarders and corners of the neighborhood, until I stood -- undefined, a witness.
If I made it to the street past the tenants who lived below with a pleasant “hello”
to where they often sat smoking their cigarettes beneath the prayer flags and the porch
light, and if I decided to turn left, and not right, I would be facing the breath of incoming
ocean air -- and that would almost always recall a memory.
Perhaps it was the smell of the kayak trip up the coast of Maine: paddling the
mornings blessed with a hazy calm that blotted out the horizon, or beholding the world

1

Walking Around
from an island caught in between the blackness of an oncoming storm. The colors of the
disappearing sun painted the sky in shades I’d yet seen.
Perhaps it was the smell of the many evening strolls on the beach near my
childhood home with my childhood friend when we would lean into the tug of turning
tides and together work out what was turning in our minds.
Perhaps it would smell of the other coast. The one I hardly met but remember
well. With the tide so low disorientation made the whole expanse of beach other-worldly
and with the whole moon so big and full you could see all the details in our
sweaters…Yes, that night and us, emerging out of the redwoods and falling onto the
beach. That night on that coast that I have met only once but remember so well.
Or, perhaps -- and often this is the case -- the smell would recall something less
distinct. The smell-memory would be like the dawning of an ancestral dream. Always it
would be fleeting. Always it would catch in my lungs and the memory would inspire me
like remembering air and what it is to breathe… and then it would respire into the night
atmosphere to catch in another’s lungs. All I would be left with was the urge to smile and
to nod toward the world unfolding before me, “Yes, yes I do know. I do understand.”
*
Soon enough I’d hit Main St. with the pennies shining so brightly. Here I often
watched the people in the windows of the restaurants and the shops, and I’d wonder about
their lives and the strange paradox of me watching and wondering about their lives as
they lived them.

2

Walking Around
If the night were warm and wet, I’d peer into puddles and revel in the alternation
of the world hanging upside down at my feet. A whole universe contained there within
the concave of pavement!
If the night were compelling and people were milling I might sit on the bench
with the lion heads for arms and rest my elbows on these perfect stoic replicas of the
vision of fiery flames I had once in the Arizona desert. And the animal in me would heat
my belly… and I’d almost let out a roar.
But the candor of the Southwest seems so long ago now…
Nearly as long ago as the one night I walked a ways behind a curious older
couple. They crossed the street to the Inn and he reached his hand out to touch her
shoulders from behind for fear of an oncoming car; then, in safety, his fingers
remembered how good it felt to be there on her cotton blouse and so close to the
warmness of her skin. And his hand gave her neck a squeeze and his eyes smiled at the
familiar shape of the woman he was remembering. And I smiled for having witnessed it.
*
Back on Main St., on the corner near the YMCA and the baseball field, the
streetlights faded out and Acadia showed her stars. If I had made it this far and still felt
too much a part of myself, I might wander into the field, past the bleachers and the
pitcher’s mound to the outfield and look up to where the tree line cut the night sky like a
filigree stencil. If I was lucky the moon was rising. If I was lucky the stars were out and
wild, rolling in their galaxies. If I was lucky this would be the end of me as I would stare
straight up spinning as fast as I could until I fell into clammy grass and became the
twisting, turning universe at last.

3


