Kathleen balanced eight bags of groceries and two gallons of milk, straining her already
aching back. She hunched over to clench a jug of milk with her chin as she attempted to open
the front door; only increasing the ever growing pressure on her contorted spine. Her purse
squirmed in evasion, like a bag of wet cats, as she maneuvered her two free fingers through it
fishing for her house keys.
She had text Ralph on her way home and asked him to come outside and help her bring in the
groceries. Although she had known him far too long to maintain the illusion that he would be
outside waiting to assist, she at least thought he would get off his planetary ass to open the door
for her. Her anticipated disappointment came to frustration when, after nudging the doorbell five

times with her elbow, she heard Ralph’s thunderous footsteps echo through the house then stop
after what couldn’t have been more than five labored steps.
“You inconsiderate fat fuck!” yelled Kathleen after a gallon of milk exploded on her favorite
two thousand dollar shoes when it escaped her grasp and fell to the cobblestone doorstep.
“Awwwwwwww, you asshole!” she yelled once more to ensure he heard her. Tears pooled
in her quivering eyes as she fought the urge to fall to her knees and cry.
With the burden of the heavy milk relieved from her arm she finally managed to get the front
door open. Before walking into the house Kathleen wiped the milk from her shoes onto the back
of her pants while contorted in a flamingo like stance. When she walked through the front door
the scent of pizza, peperoni fueled gas, and body odor assaulted her senses; she choked back her
urge to vomit. You would think that after ten years of marriage to an overflowing sack of shit
like Ralph she would be immune to any foul sent; but she had in fact lived in a constant state of
nausea for at least the last nine years since Ralph stopped trying to impress her with luxuries like
showers and closing bathroom doors before he released his monstrous bowel tearing shits.
The living room looked like it had been ravaged by a frat boys’ house party. On the antique
marble coffee table, at least a dozen empty soda cans formed a fort atop two pizza boxes which
were undoubtedly empty, if not licked clean. A third open pizza box lay on a handmade Parisian
rug several feet from the pillow covered couch. Two cans of soda and a crumbled chip bag sat
inside the open box; three more cans and a candy bar wrapper lay by its side as evidence that
Ralph was practicing his free-throws from his perch on the couch.
“Fuck, at least he got a little exercise,” thought Kathleen as she kicked the box out of the
way to walk towards the kitchen.

López / HUNGER PAINS / 3
Their house was an extravagant monument to the muse of money. Every modern luxury and
gadget was utilized within its walls; the fine art, antique furniture and high-tech electronics stood
as a bridge between the then and now.
“What a fucking waste,” thought Kathleen, through her cloud of depression, as she navigated
down the trail of snack food wrappers leading to the kitchen.
Like a water buffalo being stalked by a lion, Ralph’s pungent scent betrayed his presence
long before Kathleen saw him. When she turned the corner into the kitchen there he was; nearly
six hundred pounds of self-abusive, living, wheezing, barely human lard, piled onto a lazy boy
chair in front of the kitchen table. What an embarrassment it was when anyone came to their
home and saw that chair at the table and asked why; as if it wasn’t obvious that no dining room
chair could hold such a monstrosity as Ralph. It was like they took pleasure in making her say it.
Like she didn’t know she was married to a man so fat that his dick pissed on his own thighs
because they were too thick for it to reach past them. At least Kathleen didn’t have to be
bothered with having to have sex with such a creature. If he was even still capable of getting an
erection with his suffocated penis, his pelvic thrusts would only cause him to fuck his own thighs
and gut; never coming within a foot of her vagina.
Despite Ralph’s limp member, Kathleen wasn’t sex starved at all. Her personal trainer
Ricardo left more than her muscles sore after each session. Her chiseled body was a testament to
her devotion to him and his training methods in the gym and at his studio apartment before and
after each session.
Ralph sat reclining in his chair at the table like a king awaiting court. He strained a tilt of his
sweaty head to look at her.

López / HUNGER PAINS / 4
“Stop being such a whiny bitch and put the groceries away, before I go buy me a newer
model,” wheezed Ralph; the arrogance of his wealth outweighed his self-awareness of his
grotesque appearance.
“Don’t talk to me like that you pig!” yelled Kathleen as she threw the groceries on the
kitchen table.
“I’ve got two words for you bitch, prenuptial agreement. You wouldn’t last a week on your
own.”
Kathleen knew there was truth to that statement; but she also knew that when the time bomb
that was Ralph’s butter marinated heart exploded, she would be a very, very rich woman. She
and Ricardo would be together and Ralph could rot in Hell after a forklift lifted his gigantic
corpse into a Guinness book worthy coffin.
For now she was silent. She looked in pity at Ralph’s clothing. His flowing rolls of lard
spewed from both sleeves and his shirt collar like a Play-Doh fun factory; she giggled at the
thought of his head as a tubular crescent moon stream of clay.
“Here’s your food. I’m going to be gone for three weeks so you have to remember to call the
store and have them deliver groceries every three days or so. I don’t want you living on fast
food,” she said, more concerned about having to clean up the paper bags and pizza boxes than
about his health.
“If there is one thing I won’t forget lady, it’s to order food,” Said Ralph laughing at his own
fat joke as he picked through the grocery bags.
Kathleen quickly went upstairs to pack a bag for her trip and to escape the disgusting sight of
Ralph popping Twinkies down his throat like vitamins. She perused through her vast closet and

López / HUNGER PAINS / 5
carefully selected her skimpiest underwear and shortest skirts. She wasn’t going to visit her
mother like she had told Ralph; she only used that as an excuse because her mom lived across the
country and there wasn’t a passenger plane in existence that could accommodate Ralph’s
enormous behind. Kathleen would really be going to stay with Ricardo for his birthday;
followed by a much needed three week sexual Olympics which she secretly hoped may even
involve a few team events. After she finished packing, Kathleen walked out of bedroom eager to
leave the disgust in her heart behind with the disgust in the kitchen.
“Oh shit! Ricardo’s present,” she mumbled before she turned around and went back into the
bedroom to go shopping.
After perusing Ralph’s matching fifteen by fifteen maple shelved closet, she found the
perfect gift for Ricardo; one of several of Ralph’s Rolex watches. It was a gift that would surely
secure her place in her young lover’s heart; after all, it was worth at least twice as much as his
shitty little car. Ralph wouldn’t even notice it was gone anyway, he had several Rolex watches
and hadn’t been capable of wearing a watch for years, due to the sheer girth of his wrist. She
could only speculate that he saved them because if he gained a few more pounds he could start
wearing them as rings; she giggled out loud at her cruel joke.
With her two suitcases in hand and the stolen watch in her pocket she walked past Ralph in
silence then out the front door. Ralph wasn’t surprised by her cold shoulder, he knew she never
loved him, just his money. Although he wasn’t surprised that she didn’t say goodbye, he was
upset that she failed to put away the groceries prior to leaving.
Ralph picked his cell phone up from the table and sent a quick text, “THANKS FOR
PUTTING AWAY THE FUCKING GROCERIES, I’LL MISS YOU SOOOOOOO MUCH!”

López / HUNGER PAINS / 6
He smirked hoping that reading the text distracted her and made her run into a light pole or God
willing, a semi-truck. Kathleen and he both took out enormous life insurance policies on each
other after they were married; so he wouldn’t be too sad if she, “accidently,” died.
He only kept Kathleen around to have something sexy to look at and to clean his house. He
often considered getting a divorce then hiring a hot young maid who would serve both purposes
without all the back talk; but that sounded like so much damn work. He hadn’t left the house in
months and didn’t like the idea of meeting with lawyers and going to court dates. Besides, he
had nothing to wear, his suits hadn’t fit him in years. He lived in clown sized sweat pants and tshirts; often even abandoning those to lurch around his mansion in briefs stained with ten shades
of yellow.
“Fuck it! I guess I’ll put this shit away,” he said to himself as he nearly collapsed the table by
using it for leverage to stand up.
It was only a fifteen foot walk from the table to the fridge but when your legs weigh a
hundred pounds each it may as well be a marathon. Ralph picked up the remaining gallon of
milk, opened it, and took a drink as if it would provide him with the strength to put away the
groceries. When he walked towards the fridge with the uncapped milk swaying in his hand it
spewed onto the tile floor like Hansel leaving his trail of bread crumbs through the woods.
Ralph opened the fridge and placed the milk on the shelf. Without closing the door he slothfully
stumbled back to the table where he grabbed a gallon of ice cream.
While walking back to the fridge, “Uh, uh, uh, uh, FUUUUUUCK!” Ralph slipped in the
spilt milk.

López / HUNGER PAINS / 7
In a vain attempt to stop himself from falling, he reached his gelatinous arm out in front of
him and clasped onto the refrigerator door. Ralph’s collapsing body transferred all its weight to
the fridge’s open door, it was more strain than it could bare. The fridge lost its footing and came
crashing down onto Ralph’s legs, pinning them to the ground and shattering his brittle bones.
“Ahhhhhhhhh, fuck, fuck, my legs!” screamed Ralph as the pain set in.
He lay there screaming on the floor in a puddle of spilt milk and misery. The reality of the
situation set in; no one was home or would be home for three weeks. The recluse would not be
missed nor even expected anywhere by anyone. He was all alone. Ralph cried in despair for
hours before passing out from physical pain and emotional exhaustion.
When Ralph awoke the house was dark, the fridge had become unplugged during the fall
rendering its light and its on-door computer useless. Ralph was momentarily startled when he
realized he was on the floor and not in his bed. Seconds later, the pain from his two broken
femurs jolted him back into the reality of his dire situation; it was too much to bare, he wished he
would have never woken up.
Ralph thought desperately about how he could escape the situation. Yelling was useless,
depending on anyone else helping him was unrealistic, and calling for help……
“My phone! Where the fuck did I leave my phone?” he asked himself.
He saw it, his salvation was sitting on the table only fifteen feet away. He looked for
anything he could use to reach it. His XXXXL t-shirt was his only viable option. After ten
minutes of struggling, like a beached whale, he got his shirt off and rolled it up to form an
improvised lasso. He tried numerous times to whip it towards the table but it only fluttered
impotently to the floor. He had an idea, it needed to be heavier. Ralph soaked the shirt in the

López / HUNGER PAINS / 8
puddle of spilt milk and other various liquids that had fallen out of the fridge. Now he could
whip the shirt nearly to the table. He only needed a couple more inches. Ralph laid down the
shirt and refocused his efforts on trying to pick the fridge up off of his mangled legs so he could
slide out a little farther. He pushed with all the strength he had left but years of inactivity had
stolen his muscle. He may have been as big as a bull but he had the strength of a kitten. He
collapsed in defeat, quickly going to sleep in an attempt to escape his Hell.
When Ralph woke up it was daylight, perhaps mid-afternoon. He regretted being too lazy to
reset the clock on his stove after the last power outage; the blinking 12:00 was now a constant
reminder of his lethargy. He was ravenous. It was inconceivable for him to miss one meal but
now he’d missed several. His stomach roared as if ordering him to feed it. He began his
breakfast with the little milk that remained in the carton. Then he ate a jar of pickles, and a loaf
of bread all washed down by two cans of cola. Eating made him so happy that even two broken
legs could be effortlessly ignored while he gorged himself. What he could not ignore, was the
ever growing urge to urinate. He placed his shriveled penis in the milk carton and released a
stream of piss that sounded like a power washer spraying a sidewalk; such relief.
Darkness came after hours of staring at the ceiling and crying. The misery was too much to
bare and it had only been one day.
“Errrrrrrrrr,” whined Ralph as he regained consciousness. It appeared that it was dawn but
within half an hour or so he realized it was actually dusk. He had slept at least a whole day.
Again he was hungry, but this time his options were far more limited. His dinner consisted of a
dozen raw eggs that gaged him with their slimy texture as they slid down his throat. He drank
two more sodas to settle his stomach. Hours passed in silence. The solitude and darkness of his

López / HUNGER PAINS / 9
remote house that he normally cherished so much, was now the inspiration of terror in his heart.
To escape he slept.
Day after day passed. He abandoned the milk jug resorting to pissing on the floor and shiting
in his pants. All hope and any pride had long left his heart. Every consumable item in the
fridge, right down to the last drop of steak sauce, had been eaten.
The doorbell broke the week of silence.
“Help, helllllllp me!” screamed Ralph with every last ounce of his energy.
His house was too big and well built. Whomever was at his door would not hear his cries.
Three more rings of the doorbell hit him like kicks in his teeth. He slept and dreamt of death.
A whole day passed with Ralph staring at the bags of groceries that remained on the table.
What a torture it was for him to see food so close when his stomach ached with hunger pains.
Two more days passed before Ralph was struck with an infuriating realization as he fiddled
with the drawstring in his sweat pants.
“Why the fuck didn’t I use you to get the phone days ago? God I’m so fucking stupid!” he
yelled at the string as he removed it from its hiding place under his bean bag chair of a belly.
With the shirt tied to the string and the string tied to an empty ketchup bottle for weight, he
was ready to get his phone. He threw his contraption at the table, it fell short by at least a foot.
With an agonizing sigh, Ralph, reeled in his line. He twirled the bottle like a cowboy and threw
it again. It missed; he reeled it again. Ralph threw the bottle once more; the bottle hit just
passed the phone and came to a clattering rest nearly touching it. He reeled in his line, this time
inspired by his near success. It took him only three more tries to knock the phone off the table
and two more to drag it to his hand.

López / HUNGER PAINS / 10
“This Hell is finally over,” he thought as he excitedly grasped the phone in his bloated hand;
already envisioning firemen kicking down his door to rescue him.
He held the phone over his face which now dripped tears of joy. He hit the power switch,
nothing happened. He hit it again, and again, but nothing happened. The dark screen reflected
his expression of misery as he realized the battery was dead; his tears of joy turned sour with
sorrow. In anger he threw the phone against the wall shattering it. He cried; he cried and he
pounded his head against the ground in anger; then he came to another realization. If he could
get the phone off the table he could surely get some of the groceries from the table.
Happiness and hope replaced rage; he set to his task. After two strenuous hours of casting
his line he had retrieved nearly all the groceries. Some had rolled out of his reach when they fell
from the table and some of the bags contained non-food items, but he was more than pleased
with his bounty. He devoured half the food in the bags then spent the rest of the daylight reading
a tabloid magazine that Kathleen had bought yet forgot to take with her when she stormed away
in anger.
The pain of the next couple days were eased by the food which he now rationed and by his
frequent retreats into slumber. The downside to his continuous sleeping was that he had no idea
how many days had passed or what time it was.
The doorbell rang. It rang two more times but he did not even bother screaming. He knew it
would be in vain. Even though he accepted that whomever was ringing the bell wouldn’t hear
him, he still hoped that they may become worried and call for help.

López / HUNGER PAINS / 11
Days passed and Ralph’s hunger grew in bounds. He could not wait much longer. Not just
because of the hunger but because he now ran a high fever and frequently vomited. His legs
were surely infected from soaking in his own excrement for days on end.
His home phone rang. It rang until a voice mail was left, “Hi Ralph, I’m sure you are
listening and just too lazy to answer the phone. I decided I’m going to stay at my mom’s house
for another two weeks. I hope that’s ok, if not, call me back. Bye,” it was Kathleen.
“Oh no, oh fucking Hell no; this can’t be happing. Come home you bitch!” Ralph yelled at
the phone.
His only chance at rescue would now not arrive until long after he was dead. All hope was
lost.
“Fuck you-u-u-u-u-u-u!” Ralph shouted at the fridge as he bombarded it with a flurry of
punches. He violently shook the fridge in rage causing a glass shelf to fall on the tile and shatter.
A large, blade like, shard of glass reflected his image as it lay spinning on the tile floor; he was a
fat, pathetic, crying, fool who was about to die at the hands of his beloved refrigerator. He
would not, could not, let that happen.
He yelled at the Gods, “I am a fucking multi-millionaire for God’s sake. I will survive this
and have this fat sucked from my ass by the best cosmetic surgeons in the world if I want. I can
start over. I won’t die here!”
In a flash of courage Ralph grabbed his homemade lasso and disassembled it frantically. He
used his shirt as a crude tourniquet on his right leg and his sweat pants string to tie the other. He
grabbed the large shard of glass holding it firmly like a knife, it cut deep into his plump hand.
The pain in his hand was numbed by the fear of what was to come; he plunged the glass into his

López / HUNGER PAINS / 12
knee. The tip of the shard chipped off when it struck his kneecap but he did not falter. The pain
ripped through his body with more violence than the glass itself. Blood poured from the wound
as he sawed and stabbed at his leg. Bubbling bulges of cottage cheese like fat oozed from the
open wounds. His teeth cracked as he clenched them in pain but he did not stop. He screamed in
agony but he did not stop until his thigh burst free from his calf. Blood spurt into the air; he
twisted the shirt tighter until the ruby rain stopped, then he tied it off once more. The pain
became euphoric. His face and hands were soaked in blood and sweat, Ralph, tightened the
string as tight as he could then slashed repeatedly at his other leg until every muscle, vain, and
tendon was severed releasing him from his trap. He fell back and screamed in mutilated victory
as blood pooled around him.
Ralph looked down at his severed legs. The sight of his missing legs was unreal to him even
though he was their executioner. His mind couldn’t process what horror he wrought upon his
own being but the pain was undeniable. It hurt, it hurt like he had never felt in his comfort filled
life. It was pure agony now, the endorphins that had numbed him before were no match for the
massive trauma he had inflicted.
He was free but his ordeal was not over. He rolled as best he could towards the phone,
stamping the floor with his blood soaked nubs as he went. Each hobbled crawl released a tremor
of agony through Ralph’s trembling body. He reached the counter where the phone sat but he
could not lift his heavy torso high enough to reach it. He flopped furiously on the floor
attempting to reach the white marble counter top which stood before him like the crest of a snow
capped mountain. The kitchen began to spin and light gave way to darkness; he collapsed into
an unconscious heap of lard in a soup of his own blood, urine and feces.

López / HUNGER PAINS / 13
Ralph woke to the sound of the front door opening. “Did I sleep for three weeks?” thought
Ralph.
Regardless of why someone was coming in his house or how long it had been, he was alive
and salvation was within his grasp.
“Thank you God,” whispered Ralph.
Kathleen walked into the kitchen and gasped in horror; nearly fainting from the sight of
Ralph laying with both legs severed within the chaos of the room. His dismembered shins still
poked out from under the fridge telling the story of what had transpired.
“What happened!” yelled Kathleen as she carefully walked towards him attempting to not
step in any of the bodily fluids that coated the floor.
“Just call an ambulance, now!” ordered Ralph with what was nearly the last of his energy.
She walked to the phone and picked it up. As she reached to dial nine-one-one she looked at
Ralph and realized that this was a pivotal moment in their marriage; its end.
Kathleen disconnected the phone from the wall; retrieved the bottle of medicine she had
returned early to sneak in and get, then walked out of the house. No one would know she had
come home early, no one would recognize the false tears that she would shed when she was
notified of Ralph’s death, and surely no one would blame her when she moved on with her life.
As she closed and locked the front door she replaced the several, “Sorry we missed you,”
notes from the post office, then joined Riccardo in his awaiting car. Her smile betrayed her joy
as they drove away from the life that would soon be theirs.

The End

López / HUNGER PAINS / 14


