The two men sat head-to-head in the corner of the decked balcony
overlooking the road leading to the nursing home. It was visiting time and
there was the usual to-ing and fro-ing across the pedestrian bridge that
linked the small car park to the entrance doors. Undistracted and
unnoticed, the men continued their conversation. The lips of the younger
man moved quickly; it was clearly a funny story. The older man was
laughing. He cupped an ear with one hand - a gesture no-one had seen him
make for several years - in order to catch every word.
The younger man had been visiting every morning for two weeks and
each day followed the same routine. If the weather was dry, he bundled the
older man up in a blanket and took him out to the balcony, always sitting in
the same sheltered corner. If it was raining, they sat tucked away near the
large potted plants in the foyer café, hidden from inquisitive visitors. The
older man had once been a television personality and people were inclined
to stare. Once the older man was comfortably settled, the younger one
went off to get a pot of tea and some biscuits. The eating and drinking
routine took about half an hour as the older man could no longer lift the
cup of tea to his lips. For this purpose, the younger one brought a drinking
straw which he held to the older man’s open mouth and encouraged him to
suck. In between the slurps of lukewarm tea, the younger man gently fed
him bits of broken biscuit. The older man ate and drank with appetite, every
now and then murmuring: ‘Ah, that’s good.’


Everyone noted the improvement. They all agreed that the older man
was more aware of his surroundings - his banter more pertinent. Before the
young man began visiting, the older man used to lie in a semi-comatose
state. Anne-Marie Ryan couldn’t bear to see him fading away, her once
brilliant husband who used to hold her hand and tell her that he loved her.
Her distress had caused her to cut her afternoon visits to a minimum;
sometimes she stayed only a few minutes.
She had begun to plan his funeral. She had contacted her eight
children; three were living abroad. Boru, as usual, was nowhere to be found
and none of his siblings knew of his whereabouts. She had left three
messages on his answering service but now it was full and she couldn’t
leave any more. No doubt, he was off on some sunny holiday with his
partner or doing business deals in a third world country. He’d get in touch
once he got back and thankfully, she could tell him that all had changed. His
father had returned to the land of the living.
She was baking again for her beloved. Today it was tea brack, one of
his favourites. She sliced the brack and placed it in a plastic food container.
She added two mini packets of butter and a plastic knife and napkin. Her
husband’s appetite had returned and she intended to fatten him up. Maybe
she could convince the home to let her take him out a bit. She’d get
Cormac, her eldest, to help her. She found herself humming in the lift up to
his room. He wasn’t dead yet and as long as he had some quality of life, he
should live on, she decided to herself. Yesterday, he had held her hand and
told her that he loved her; the years fell away. If he loved her, than he

3

wasn’t suffering and if he wasn’t suffering than she had done the right thing
placing him in a home; the guilt lifted and she felt weightless. She couldn’t
wait to see him.
Anne-Marie knocked on his bedroom door to announce her arrival
and swept in, ready to plump pillows and open windows. The bed was
empty. She paused long enough to note the pulled back blankets.
Something must have happened. Panicked, she rushed out of the room and
ran to the nurses’ station; there was one on every floor.
‘My husband, Brendan, where is he? What has happened to him?’
she screeched.
Well used to her bouts of hysteria, the nurse took her hand and
smiled.
‘Brendan didn’t want to lie in bed this afternoon so we put him in his
wheelchair. He’s out on the front balcony, getting a bit of that evening sun.’
Anne-Marie hurried down to the foyer - her eyes searching for her
husband through the large window overlooking the balcony. She could see
Brendan sitting in his wheelchair; his face lifted to the sunshine. His hand
cupped his ear as if he was listening to some music. He shouldn’t be on his
own, Anne-Marie thought angrily as she ran out - vowing to inform the staff
nurse at the very first opportunity.
‘Ah, there you are, my dear,’ Brendan smiled at her as she
approached.

4

He hadn’t greeted her in such a way for a long time. She smiled back
at him.
‘Hello, my beloved, how are we today?’ She bent down and kissed
him gently on the lips.
‘I am marvelous, darling; absolutely marvelous. Come sit and join us.
Boru was just telling me one of his funny stories. Tell your mother, Boru!’ he
encouraged the younger man.
Anne-Marie looked at the empty bench beside her husband and her
heart sank. He wasn’t getting better after all; it was just another stage in
the disease. She felt like crying with frustration.
‘My love, you look upset. Boru! Tell your mother what you were just
telling me, it will cheer her up no end.’ He patted the empty space above
the bench. ‘I know you don’t want to ruin the surprise, I know, but look at
her, Boru, she’s upset. Don’t be upset, darling, everything is going to be all
right. I promise. Tell her, Boru!’
Aside from the fact that he was talking to thin air, Brendan sounded
like his old self. He was sitting upright in his wheelchair, gesticulating freely
with his arms. His voice was strong and clear. Anne-Marie began to think
that the problem lay with her.
‘Is that Boru sitting beside you?’ she asked her husband nervously.
‘Yes, my dear, it is,’ he beamed back at her. ‘Boru has been visiting me
for two weeks now and we’ve been catching up on lost time.’

5

Anne-Marie thought about all the times she’d beseeched her
youngest to go and see his father before it was too late. But he was always
too busy. And now somehow he was here, or at least, Brendan believed he
was.
‘Can I sit beside him?’ she asked her husband.
‘Of course you can, you silly thing. Did you hear your mother, Boru?
She wants permission to sit beside you? Move over, son, and make space
for her.’
Anne-Marie sat beside her invisible son and watched her husband
interact with the empty space beside her. Brendan’s hands were now
resting in his lap and it seemed as if someone was gently massaging them.
She turned and looked at the stone wall.
‘So what’s the news, Boru?’ she asked the air beside her.
‘He’s taking me on a little holiday, my dear!’ Brendan blurted out in
excitement. ‘A sunny holiday, to somewhere like the Canaries, but even
better, he promises.’ he lifted his face up to the fading sunlight.
Anne-Marie felt a soft breeze caress her arm; it carried the answer to
her question. She leaned into the emptiness beside her.
‘Boru says you can come too if you want.’ Brendan told his wife.
‘I may well do that, my dear,’ Anne-Marie said softly. ‘I may well,
indeed.’


