He had the entire congregation out on the field behind the church waiting for the
lord to come and eradicate them all. The perfect race was coming with the perfect
world: the most perfect world possible. It had been prophesized that this did not
include the current human race, that current race, unworthy of the planet. God had
it in mind to start the whole damn thing over again. Man, from scratch. They’d hoped
that by watching, waiting until the great event came, they would be showing Him
their understanding of His master plan. They would be rewarded in the great
intangible muck that awaited everyone in the afterlife. They thought of themselves
as martyrs for the new race: a people who understood, a people who didn’t fight, a
more peaceful race of people. The best possible race of people. By having the insight
to understand, they would be respected as ancestors, however primitive, in the
future history books.

There were two distinct groups of followers: the ones who thought that just by
being on the fields they were doing their part and the ones who thought that God
wanted them to stare toward the sky, see it all, in eager expectation until the great
event took place. The ones who thought that God wanted them to stare stood there
frozen looking up toward the heavens even after their necks cramped, for the
inevitable.

They expected explosions and fire from the skies. Someone had said something
about a dragon, a giant war. The giant war was already raging as they saw it. The
dragon wouldn’t be far behind. Grand events were expected to mark the definite end
of the human race.

The organizer of the “Great Witnessing” and leader of the congregation stood at
the top of the highest hill in the pose he would most like to be sculpted in when he
was to turn into a heroic icon. He would be the proud perch on which pigeons would
shit in the center of the perfect city of the perfect race. He suspected that he would
be viewed with regard: the leader of the observant few.

He had commissioned a man to take down his life story so that nothing could be
misinterpreted in the future. He had asked the man if he believed that the end was
coming soon. “Sure I do!” said the man, who needed the money. That man was
sitting over on the left side of the preacher, just low enough on the other side of the
hill to remain unseen by the congregation, scribbling away at his pad of paper. He
wouldn’t let the preacher read any of his notes because they were all coming out
quite snide. I’d know. I am that man.

In the early life of the movement some had thought the preacher to be crazy;
however, the more he spoke the more conviction entered his voice, the more they

2

believed what he was saying was true the more other people became unsure of
themselves…and given the possibility that the preacher did know some kind of
secret why would they take the chance?

The preacher looked to the sky. Clouds floated deviously through the air. The
grass seemed to tremble as though it knew something wicked was coming. His
bones ached in the fracture where he had broken his arm out of a scourging session
gone array, when he had deemed himself unworthy, imperfect, when he had started
to loathe his body and his self for his weaknesses.

He had started flogging himself regularly to prove himself to God that he was
perfect in soul. He thought about the bodies of the Greek statues and then thought of
his own body. He hated himself for what his statue would look like: a lanky man
with stringy, balding, long hair and patchy facial hair where it would grow on his
face.

He found himself getting more and more angry with his body for all of the things
that it never did for him. He wasn’t physically fit (whap), he wasn’t particularly
smart (whap), he was rapidly losing hair (whap), he was certain his vision was going
to go and he noticed his legs were like those of a chicken (whap). He was worried
about the size of his penis in comparison to other men. All of these things went

3

through his head while he flogged himself. With every fleeting thought the hits to his
body got rougher and eventually he was drawing blood. When he drew blood he lost
control of the part of his brain that held survival paramount and he started feeling
good. Really good. It ended with him breaking his own arms in a fit of euphoria. He
passed out when the crazy had gone away from his mind and the pain penetrated all
the way through his cerebrum. He suspected that God had something to do with his
self‐loathing and he felt vindicated in being a sufferer.

He looked at his arms with their scars and their imperfections. The
imperfections he had created for himself. He thought that the scars made him look
weathered and wise. He suspected that, years from now, when they painted this very
moment they would include the scars. They, the post‐human race, would of course
have the greatest painters the earth had ever known. Michelangelo would seem a
crude precursor.

He stared at his congregation from the top of the hill and felt like the general of a
great army. God would surely thank him in heaven. He felt sure of his place more
and more as he stared and thought. He saw his life as a timeline, which would need
to be studied in the grade schools of the perfect race: the Christopher Columbus of
heaven.

4

There would be biographies written about him by the new race. The new
intellectuals would write books on his heathen sister even, who had converted and
was sitting on the grass, sloping downward toward the masses, a few feet from me.
They would write about the church that sacrificed for them and their perfection,
that knew there was something better coming. The witnesses would be the new
ancient culture.

As the hours of the day passed, the clouds drifted by overhead. Patches of blue
repression wove into the sky’s previously foreboding nature. The more the blue
appeared the more his mind tried to establish confidence until it felt like he was
holding on to a ledge and below him was only unknown darkness.

He started to realize that he was slouching. He realized his face wasn’t as stern
and regal as it ought to be at such a pivotal moment in history. He thought about
how valiant hero’s faces are portrayed and then he compared those faces to his own.
He felt the urge to scourge himself.

He looked down at his congregation; some of them were pointing to the sky and
talking.

5

The skies were now completely blue. Birds were singing. The rest of the
congregation suspected that it was all according to plan. The preacher began to
sweat, felt as though he were a ghost, weightless and lifeless. What if no one were to
die today? His gaze panned the field again frantically…

The straight‐faced old women stood gossiping over in the corner of the field,
quite content that they had been right all along and that all the little whore heathens
would soon meet their makers. The old men drank from a flask with a kind of
brotherhood of mutual misery. Both parties told stories of the good old days soon to
be obliterated and forgotten forever.

There were young kids dancing and playing and young adults sulking at the loss
of their unused bodies. At least two pairs of these young adults went out into the
woods just on the other side of the field and started to fool around. After all
tomorrow wasn’t coming. Why shouldn’t they? Written all over their faces after
returning to the field was the question of whether that had actually solved anything.

The day turned into night and God had not come yet to take the souls of all of
those present. Eventually the field, once full of people, started thinning. People who
had only joined because of fear were the first to leave, strongly suspecting that they
had been swindled and tricked. Next were the young adults who did actually believe

6

but didn’t want to, lest they should give up the bodies they’d just recently
discovered. The old people left shortly after that because it was past their bedtime
and they had had “quite enough of all of this foolishness”. Soon enough the people
who simply follow without regard to principle left because it became quite obvious
that this was not the choice for them. The fanatics stayed though, staring up toward
the sky in silence.

The fanatics of the church stayed until the earth took them back to be reused in
some other capacity. If you go back now you will see random patches of flowers
where they had kneeled and turned into dust.

The preacher stood and just stared at the dark radiance of the night sky out in
the middle of nowhere. He felt insignificant among the distances of the lights. He felt
a sense of security in the insignificance as though he’d always known something.

The fanatics had disappeared from his gaze and into the darkness of night, but
they were still there, still believing.

“It’s going to be all right,” he said in a tone that can only be defined as a conflict
of disappointment and comfort.

7

“It’s going to be all right,” he said again, not for the world this time but for
himself.

“It’s going to be all right,” he repeated, this time hanging on to those last two
words.

He had forgotten that I was sitting there. His focus was on a higher being at this
point in time. Him, just staring at the stars in disbelief. Do I talk to him? Should I
make up an ending?

He left the hill.

I sat there for hours, feeling a sense of everything around me moving. The wind
blew, characteristic in such a moment. I stared down towards my hands to see what
they had done, the light of the moon making them seem sinister: detail and snide
comments of events that never were but still seemed important. I had forgotten
about the fanatics, sitting in the darkness somewhere at the bottom of the hill,
completely quiet. Feeling as though I was being watched I set out down the hill,

8

leaving the stars that shine and God to remain an intangible possibility rather than a
fact.

A month later the new preacher from the congregation found the previous one
hanged on a tree in the woods around the church. The people of the congregation
buried him in an unmarked grave, and never once spoke his name. Nor does it
particularly matter for our purpose. The End.

9


