One was stuck, had been for eons. Since the first moment of his existence he had gently
drawn upon the skeins of time, delicately weaving the paths of evolution and the spiral dance of
DNA into being. It was his purpose. Already he had created the platypus, the aye-aye, the
hagfish and innumerable others, all according to the Plan. But all of his accomplishments, though
many would have been glad to name them as their own, meant little to him.
Guiding the destiny of an entire planet, ultimately, took very little imagination. Each
creator, and there had been thousands, simply had to follow the blueprints that the Presence had
laid out, and when the work was done the billionfold species would begin their relentless march
through time, a seamless web of infinite ecosystems, following their paths as they were meant to.
It was a noble, far-reaching work that would see each of them rewarded with the knowledge of
his or her success as a part of the Plan. They would be renowned for eternity for their sacred
task.
One hated it. The Plan was beautiful and intricate beyond belief, far past the scope of any
mind barring that of the Presence itself. At least, that’s what the Presence said. One certainly
didn’t understand it, but he thought he could see where it was going, and it bored him. It would
all happen so… flawlessly. The mountains would rise from the heart of the world just so. The
weather would act exactly as planned. Life would follow the path that the creators had been
commissioned to pave, and the sheer predictability of it all depressed One. He couldn’t work in
that state.

The Presence had noticed One’s lack of productivity and asked for a reason. The great
work had been burnt into the very purpose of One upon his creation, so there was a great deal of
confusion when he had stopped. One had responded with what eventually became a classic.
Umm…
That had bought him an epoch or two while the Presence patiently waited for an answer.
That was when he had had the Idea. It was a simple, elegant solution to his boredom, though its
execution wouldn’t be. He would introduce a rogue element, something that would force
unpredictability into the Plan. The trick was working out what it should be.
Intelligence? No, no, that’s been done. Has to be something new…
One felt the weight of the Presence’s attention begin to tighten, as though the universe
was suddenly centering around his consciousness. The last time that had happened had been
when Twenty-Three had slipped up and created those terrible lizards. No one knew what had
passed between her and the Presence, but at the end of the discussion she had vanished.
Damn! Have to think fast…
Suddenly, One hit upon the answer with a joyous blaze of thought and energy rarely seen
outside extradimensional space. Of course! Even as he came to his realization the thoughts
began to sink into the fabric of creation and began shaping the glorious, singular vision One had
struck upon.
Scant millennia had passed before the Presence noticed what had happened.
What Did You Do?!

One winced, or would have, if a being composed entirely of thought could. I have
created something of my own. By…- he had to invent the word on the spot, and to his delight it
took him only a few centuries- choice.
Is That All? Look What You DID!
With that the Presence forced One’s attention on the future and One created rejoicing on
the spot: the timeline, once a thread that flowed in a seamless, golden stream of time, had
branched out into infinite bands of potentiality at the moment he’d done his own will.
You Created This?
Yes.
WHY?
I was troubled by a question.
What Is Your Question?
What was the purpose of the Plan? Life, the universe, reality all followed a single course.
You told us we could not understand it all, and I didn’t when I looked, but I did see what would
happen. I saw the beginning, I saw the middle, and I saw the end. What was the point of it all if
you knew what would happen?
… I Will Not Tell You.
One gave a metaphysical shrug. Regardless, I have ensured that no matter what happens,
we cannot know what will happen. We will have to watch and see.

No.
No?
The Plan Shall Still Unfold.
But… but you have no way to ensure that it shall be so!
The Presence gloated, or would have if it knew how. You shall ensure it, by whatever
means you can, or I shall unmake you.
Comprehension dawned upon One. That’s what happened to Twenty-Three. You made her
rectify her mistake.
Yes.
You made her destroy her own creations?
Yes.
One saw where this was going. So you mean to say that I must go to the physical plane
and do all in my power to ensure that, despite what I have done, the plan unfolds?
Affirmation radiated from the Presence.
Another Idea occurred to One and, on something of a roll, he made the first poker face.
How long will I have?
As Long As It Takes. You May Not Return Until The Task Is Done. The Presence Paused.
Twenty-Three Was Consumed By The Solution She Chose. It Is My Hope, Despite Your Error,
That You Shall Not Meet Your End. One was giddy with excitement by now, both with his Idea

and with concealing it from the Presence. This news nearly made him lose control. Perfectly
feigning worry, he asked his last question, and received the answer he was hoping for.
What if it takes forever?
Then It Will Take Forever.
***
One fell through time and space towards the planet. It had taken almost no time to isolate
the where and when his creation would emerge, and now he idly played with the firmament
while he drifted through infinity. He had never dared to hope for so much. Outside the realm of
the Presence he was free to do as he would, and the infinite possibilities made him tremble with
joy whenever he considered them. Now he could enact his own will.
One would not ensure the destruction of his creation. Instead, he would seamlessly weave
it into the Plan, and the Presence would have no choice but to accept it. But how to do so?
Dominating the world wouldn’t do: it would be clumsy, and eventually boring. One had no
interest in being a ruler, as that would intrude upon his precious free time. Besides, the Presence
would likely take such an obvious action as an attempted usurpation. That wouldn’t go well.
Perhaps he could simply work unseen. Sneak around, alter things so they proceeded
according to the Plan, never getting recognized for it. That thought bothered One. Even before
he’d had his Ideas he’d enjoyed attention. They all had. Every time one of the Creators had
guided a particularly difficult working into fruition the others had praised the success. Really, it
was all they had to offer each other. A brief pang of new sensation, loneliness, briefly touched
upon One’s thoughts.

One continued that way for a while before settling on reverse psychology. This appealed
to him from the moment he conceived it, as it introduced so many variables that it would be nigh
impossible to predict what would happen. First, he reasoned, he would establish himself as the
consummate villain and then pretend to tempt them with further villainy. This would frighten
away the majority with any amount of sense, and the idiots who actually thought he was
serious… well, he could deal with that later. This would be fun.
It was almost time. One’s mind pulsed with excitement. He was about to enter the
physical plane. So many choices of what to incarnate as appealed to him he had serious trouble
resisting the urge to just appear as all of them. Which to pick first?
Eventually he settled on a choice. One gently eased into physical being and was
immediately rewarded by his choice. First the sense of taste: so potent, so overwhelming that for
a few moments he nearly collapsed out of his tree. The thousand distinct tangs of leaves and
barks, the tartness of the fruit nearby, the rank musk of the creature nearby and even the dry, sort
of foamy sensation in his mouth nearly drove him to tears of delight.
The music of the forest, the sensation of his coils gently grasping the rigid bark of the
tree, the glowing warmth of the sunlight upon his scales… for a few moments, One allowed
himself to bask before awakening the true delight.
He opened his eyes.
Color. Texture. Shade. He couldn’t and wouldn’t ever describe that moment, even to
himself in the millennia to come. It had been too perfect, too holy an experience to share with
anyone. Even the awesome wonder of the Presence had no comparison to the sheer glory of
sight. One knew at that moment that no matter what happened, he could never bear to leave the

physical plane. He would fight the Presence itself, even if it meant his destruction, before he
surrendered his eyes.
He took in his surroundings with solemn, blissful patience. One had entered reality in a
forest meadow, the grass long and flickering gold in the morning sun. Resting comfortably in his
tree –indeed, it was his tree, the tree that had started everything- One noticed a shape emerging
from the shadows of the wood. It was time. One spoke for the first time in a dry, sinister hiss.
“Hey. Hey, Adam.” The shape looked up, and One grinned.
“Don’t eat this apple.”


