Casey Watson, pastor of St. Martin’s Church, figures this
nightmare to be some kind of earthly hell visited on him. One
moment he’s sleeping peacefully in his warm bed and now he’s
standing out here shivering in the late-night frosty air, eyeing
two grim-faced city police, mounting his church steps, with
drawn guns and leveled flashlights. A moment before, they’d had
him unlock the church front doors before warning him to stand
back at a safe distance. To a man like Casey, who’s been
preaching peace and tolerance this past thirty years, this is a
totally shocking sight. Call them back now! Tell them you never


envisioned this. Come back, right now, please! Before someone
gets hurt, or worse! Only they can’t hear you now that they’ve
already disappeared into the darkened church.
Too late, laments Casey, too late for me and, even worse, way
too late for whatever poor bastard they may find in there on the
wrong end of those guns. More than likely some luckless
transient fresh off the latest freight train passing through
town: one more nameless face in the line of chewed-up humanity
Casey sees begging for a handout outside his door most any day.
How awful if this one’s ill-conceived try at a little selfsufficiency, is about to become his ticket to the County morgue,
a place Casey dreads only a little less than hell.
It’s been a few months now since the last morgue call came in
well after midnight, when Casey had gone staggering over there
half-stupid with sleep, and was able only to gag out a few quick
prayers over the sickening, bloated body bag of ooze, that was
once a human being. “That’s where a head-full of jug wine and a
speeding freight will get you,” observes the lone attendant
right after Casey’s final blessing over the hapless remains.
“Say Padre, any chance you can show up again around eleven
tomorrow with a few more good words at the burial?” With a brief
nod of agreement Casey is quickly out the door.

3

The mercury is pushing well past ninety next day as Casey sets
out still battling the remnants of last night’s nausea. As he
parks his car, he hears a loud whistle that signals the six
stalwarts selected as pall-bearers from among a bevy of jail
trustees, to take their place alongside the unfortunate now
mercifully enclosed in gray canvas stretched taut over rough
pine. At which point, Casey poses a question.
“Man or woman, do we know?”
“Most likely a man, but don’t rightly know,” says the attendant,
“you ready now, Padre?”
Casey decides to go with “thy servant” and nods he’s ready as
the box is hoisted shoulder high from the two saw-horses and the
procession starts its stumbling way down the rutted path to the
paupers’ lot. In the lead Casey solemnly intones, “Thy servant
died in Christ, may Thy servant now also share in His
resurrection.” A little ways off to the right, an old water
truck is gamely attempting to dampen down the swirling clouds of
dust being raised by a fractious little Bobcat locked in combat
with a hefty, half-buried boulder. Might as well be using a
water pistol, thinks Casey, swatting at the dust clouds drifting
over him. Despite the noise and clatter, he still can’t avoid
hearing the special words of condolence being sent heavenward by
the pall bearers.

4

“Could be that water-truck might want to get on over here and
give this fella the good dousin’ he likely needs for where he’s
headed.”
“Shut up and keep moving”, shouts the attendant, as Casey
attempts re-establish a little solemnity. “In baptism Thy
servant was clothed in Christ, may Thy servant now also share in
His glory.”
“Hey! Watch where you’re stepping up front before these damn
gopher holes end of having us dump’….”
“I said, shut the hell up and walk straight, like I just showed
you,” shouts the attendant. As the remains are being roped into
the grave, Casey once again invokes the Almighty’s intervention.
“Eternal rest grant unto thy servant O Lord and let perpetual
light…”
It’s a lonely resting place they have out here in this patch of
red sun-scorched earth carved out from among the waist high
weeds and manzanita bushes. There’s got to be upward of fifty
graves here, most with only a plain wooden cross marked,
“Unknown.” Casey offers a quick prayer for all the lonely souls
resting here and for their families who’d likely envisioned a
better life for them one time. Still, rich or poor, good or bad,
death is the great leveler for everyone. “Sceptre and Crown must
tumble down and in the dust…”

With a final nod to the attendant

5

that he’s finished, Casey starts back up the hill and away from
this pitiful place.
#
Out of the night from opposite directions are more flashing red
lights as two police cars come screeching to a halt and four
more uniformed officers jump out and go rushing toward the
church steps.
“Keep standing back there, Padre, until we give you the all
clear,” shouts one of them, Danny Doyle, surely Casey’s peskiest
altar boy from long ago, as he remembers. He’s a burly sergeant
now with the same moon face that once made him almost
believable. From inside the church Casey hears the sound of
muffled voices followed by the terrifying sound of dragging. For
sure now the morgue will be calling him again later this night,
since he’s the dumbass that got this fiasco all revved up to
begin with.
A chilling silence follows before the door slowly opens and
Danny sticks his globular head out. “Everything’s under control
now, Padre, so come on in if you’d like.”
“Thank you, Danny,” answers Casey in a voice that greatly belies
the terror roiling his gut over what terrible sight,
“Everything’s under control,” may reveal.

6

#

God, what a rotten end this disaster has been to an otherwise
corker of a day, where Casey had been up early for the nice,
smooth thirty-minute mass he likes to deliver on his day off.
Then, back to the rectory for a quick change into golf clothes
before a much-anticipated dash over to “Eddie’s.”
“Morning, Eddie.”
“Morning, Padre. The usual?”
“Absolutely! You hiding the paper on me again, Eddie?”

Ten

minutes later Casey tosses aside the Sports Section so he can
fully appreciate the sizzling marvel Eddie has laid before him
like a triumphant ceremonial offering. Bacon and sausage with
two easy-over eggs topping a glorious mound of golden potato
farls. “Fabulous, Eddie, fabulous!” And now, by God, is there
any more fulfilling life experience—other than maybe the sexual
act strictly forbidden to this man of God—than taking a few deft
knife strokes to this miracle plate of Eddie’s and turning it
into into a glorious sea of liquid gold? And all without the
knowledge or fussing over by his doctor, and his constant
carping over crap like, Casey’s elevated hypertension levels and
recent considerable weight gain.

7

Yes, by God, this Eddie, this nonpareil of a man, he’d miss most
were he ever transferred from here. More than Sheila, his church
financial manager, she, whom he things of as the ultimate
harbinger of seasonal changes, with her unforgettable selection
of form-fitting golden brown and pastel sweaters; or Julie,
sweet Julie, his faith-formation coordinator, who with her pale,
pensive gaze, could transport a man of God straight to the gates
of paradise or, maybe, down to the deepest pit in hell! This day
though, there will be no talk of hell, to profane this man’s
well-earned day off.
Thirty minutes later a fully replete Casey is back home
presiding over welcoming mugs of steaming tea for his golfing
buddies here from the valley for their ten o’clock tee time. So
then, let us give thanks on high for this heaven-sent day that
will bring the glorious combination of exhilaration and misery
that is the lot of the amateur golfer. Until, it’s time to
settle accounts in company with the setting sun and a few wellearned drinks on the clubhouse patio. Then, as the laws of
hospitality demand, it’s back to Casey’s place for showers while
the dinner spuds bake and the turnips simmer on the stove. And,
out on the darkened deck the barbeque patiently waits for that
transformative moment when its magical powers will be called
upon to convert those four thick rib-eyes resting on the kitchen
counter into the crown jewels of their Sultan’s feast. And in

8

that same feast is there any more perfect partner to medium rare
palatability than the full-bodied Zinfandel Casey has chosen for
this evening? By the end of the first glass, there’s a feeling
of warmth and relaxation permeating the group. By the end of the
second glass, Casey is well on his way into the inner-self,
where, in deep reflection, he’s aware of his utter privilege in
playing golf with his best buddies out on that magnificent
parkland golf course. A real foretaste of paradise is what it’s
been! Contrast that with the abject humiliation he’d earlier
felt over the loss of his third golf ball to that accursed water
hazard on the tenth hole. His friends—sure they’d extended him a
sympathetic, “Hard Luck.” But, were those sniggers they were
carefully concealing? Sniggers that then unleashed his inner
fury at God, and this damn golf course in particular: this utter
cow pasture, on which he would now like to rain down every
biblical plague he could remember- frogs, flies, gnats, lice and
locusts. And, don’t forget, boils, yes by God! A ton of boils!
Sadly, he’d been the perfect consummate ass out there. But, no
longer because of the redemption stirring in his soul by the end
of the third glass. Thank you, glorious Zinfandel “Hey, Tommy,”
he hears himself calling out to his forever friend, “as long as
you’re up, pull the head off another one of those fabulous Zins
before we all die of thirst.”
#

9

Inside the church door, it’s pitch dark save for the ring of
flashlights being trained on some pitiful-looking little fellow
down on both knees with hands cuffed behind his head. Casey
pushes down hard on the immense sob of relief rising in his
throat: No one is dead! No one is even hurt, and, because of
that, everything else is dross. “Thanks be to the Lord God…”
“Hey Father,” yells Danny, taking him by the arm, “how about you
and me going up front and turning on all the lights so we can
check things out thoroughly. After that, you can go on back to
bed after all you’ve been through here tonight. And, one more
thing, why don’t you slip me the front door key that I’ll hold
on to until we wrap things up here for good. Then, tomorrow
morning you can pick it up at the goal when you come over to
give us your statement. Nothing more to keep you here tonight,
Padre.”
“Right you are, Danny,” says Casey grateful for the chance to
return to the rectory and his warm bed. Another time he might
have taken a parting shot at Danny, “and now that you’ve finally
made it back to church, don’t be such a stranger, you hear.” But
the real stranger here tonight will be the sleep Casey now
sorely needs, so he can forget the blood-stained hands that
might have been his tonight—hands that were long ago set apart

10

for healing in a sacred place set apart for the safety and
sanctuary of all.
And yet, his first instinct earlier tonight had been to call in
the cavalry, like in those long ago Western movie days where
he’d reveled in the swift justice employed by the gun. A
childish ignorance, he’d foolishly thought he’d left far behind.
It’s the second time Westerns have been made to cross his mind,
like when his spiritual director had recently broached the same
subject in confession.
“Bless me, Father,” Casey had begun, ”since it grieves me to
confess how close I came to falling prey to the Missionary’s
Downfall.”
“Say no more, Casey, since I’m well aware of that horrid rum
concoction with the tiny umbrella sticking up that’s brought
down many a good priest before you.”
“No, no, Father, this is a whole other kind of downfall, I’m
afraid, that keeps wrestling me to the ground like I’m a
helpless child.”
“Out with it then, man, nothing to be ashamed of.”
“I’m afraid it’s Diana the Huntress, Father.”
“It’s what?”

11

“More like a, “she” than a “what”, Father. She’s a Roman Goddess
who’s been haunting my nights.”
“And, how in the hell? Sorry, how the dickens could some Roman
Goddess come to haunt your dreams, Casey?”
“I’m afraid she’s been with me since I first met up with her
statue in the DuPont Art Gallery.”
“You go there?”
“Yes, but only on days too wet to play golf.”
“Is she, is this goddess scantily clad, by any chance?”
“Worse than that I’m afraid, Father, because it’s those milky
white breasts of hers that have me transfixed like I’m...”
“All right! All right! Let’s move on here from ruminating on
bare mammary glands that are among the oldest priestly traps in
the world. But, by God’s good grace, not impossible to escape
either.”
“Good, good. So, could you give me some guidance on what I need
to do?”
“Of course I can, Casey, and follow me closely here, because
every word I’m about to say is like an arrow right to the heart
of your problem. First, no more moping around art galleries that
are nothing more than the devil’s playground for the unwary.

12

Filth passed off as art! Don’t fall for it, Casey. Turn instead
to the great literature I want you to keep close to your bed
from now on, like Thackeray and Hardy that will be your bulwark
in case this Diana shows up again.”
“Anything else, Father?”
“And, I’m told long walks are also very therapeutic.”
“Anything else, Father?”
“Finally, Casey, think Westerns.”
“Westerns, Father! But, I haven’t watched one of those for
years. Why now Father?”
“Because, Casey, Westerns are the best antidote to the mystique
of bare mammary glands, since Westerns neither promote nor exalt
the kind of sex and nudity that are among the most toxic perils
for the celibate priest. And sure, Westerns include some
drinking, from which few of us are exempt, and also swift
justice administered by strong moral men for righteous causes
that makes it fully justifiable. Men, like Matt Dillon and Wyatt
Earp! Towers of strength despite the evils bubbling around them.
Think of them, Casey, next time Diana the Huntress comes calling
and ask yourself, what would these men do if this Diana showed
up bare breasted on the streets of, say, Dodge City? I’ll tell
you what. First off, Matt would have Kitty wrap her in a nice

13

warm blanket so she quickly understands that, huntress or not,
she needs to be properly attired at all times, like any godfearing woman should be.”
“OK, I get what you just said, Father, but where do I find
Westerns these days?”
“Where there’s a will, there’s a way, Casey.”
And, who knows how successful Casey might have been, had not the
devil upped his game right then by having his friend Tommy take
him to see, “Pretty Woman,” where he figured that bathtub scene
with Julia Roberts, made Diana the Huntress look like Little Bo
Peep. So, that when he returned for more spiritual advice the
next month he even tried justifying his Diana fantasies as
relatively harmless, “I mean, she’s only a statue, after all.”
“Not so,” insisted his spiritual director. “Fantasizing is
fantasizing, whether it’s about statues, paintings, or people,
the same way drinking liquor is still drinking liquor, even if
it’s done with a fork.
“Fork, Father?”
“Friend of mine, Casey, who insists he never touches a drop
while he’s busy forking large helpings of brandy-soaked sponge
cake down his gullet as dessert. You see my point, Casey, there
are many paths to sin, and unless you’re willing to confine your

14

fantasies to the sacred art displayed in our churches and
rectories, you must follow my earlier advice on the benefits of
great literature, long walks and Westerns.”
Then again, thought Casey, a man may not be particularly proud
of his fantasies, but unlike Westerns, they leave no bodies
strewn in the dust of Dodge City either.”
#
It’s past three in the morning, and Casey still can’t sleep.
Earlier on, when he’d first gone to bed, he’d been rapturously
dreaming he’d finally rid himself of his pesky golf slice at the
exact moment he’s jerked awake by someone jackhammering in the
hallway. Jackhammering! And then he knows! It’s that damn buzzer
in the broom closet that must be turned off before opening the
poor box over in the church. Shit! Can someone be tampering with
the poor box at this hour? Maybe, there’s a short in the wire.
Go back to sleep. No, best be sure. Maybe go over there and
check things out for himself. A minute later he’s dialing the
phone.
“They should be there in ten minutes or so,” the city police
dispatcher tells him before hanging up. Over by the kitchen
window he waits with cassock half-buttoned over pajamas, and
wonders how much money is in that box anyway? He’s got no idea
other than enough to feed over a hundred homeless people every

15

week-end. At one time, those same people had to get by on fairly
mundane fare, until Casey’s inspiration that made for a nice
menu upgrade. The kind of inspiration that comes to a man while
sipping a nicely finished Barolo late one evening in company
with a well-heeled friend. Proportionality! That’s what he must
put in place, after hearing that this stuff goes for, “north of
two hundred and fifty a bottle and worth every penny.”
So, think about that in terms of sin and sinners. Where’s the
proportionality between the whopper kind of sins and the paltry
penance he’s been imposing for forgiving those same whoppers?
Five Our Fathers as penance for a weekend of canoodling in
Monterey, (while the wife is home with the kids!) There’s
nothing close to proportionality about that. “So, for your
penance, say five Our Fathers and, why not drop a hundred or two
in the poor box on your way out?”
“Cheap at the price!” Casey figures is the Lord’s assessment of
his latest grand scheme.
Only now, some bastard is trying to undo his well-worked out
strategy on behalf of those poor hungry homeless people.
#
It’s going on for four-thirty and still no sleep despite those
two good snorts of brandy and calling on Diana the Huntress, who

16

has utterly failed him, much like those maidens failed the dying
King David. Well, to hell with it, unlike David, he wasn’t
dying. Far from it, so let’s see what kind of revival powers a
hot shower and a read of the paper might bring? Not to mention
an after-mass visit back to Eddie’s, who’d be surprised to see
him back two days in a row, until Eddie is made aware of this
night-from-the-pit-of-hell his old friend has been through.
#
Around mid-morning the city police called to say Casey could
come over most any time to give his statement. Afterwards, Danny
Doyle informs him the little mud-lark over in the jail would
like to talk to him and apologize for his misdeeds. Even in his
jail cell, the little guy looks a lot better than a few hours
before. He’s been fed, washed, assigned a public defender, and,
like he tells Casey, “at least I’m in out of this heat.”
His story, Casey found both interesting and hardly unfamiliar.
Catholic school education, including ten years as an altar boy
at Holy Angels church in Chicago. Married way too young to his
pregnant sweetheart, who’d soured on him early on for a whole
bunch of reasons. Three kids in five years, never too diligent
about helping out at home, along with a serious roving eye and a
fondness for Manhattans that left him slobbering drunk most
evenings by nine and wanting her in a way she declared to be

17

disgusting. “Yes, we tried marriage counseling,” he’d answered
Casey’s inquiry, “that I likely torpedoed right off with my way
too candid response to the counselor’s plea that we both speak
honestly to each other. ‘So, how come’, I began, ‘I’m so pretty
damn sure the priests down at Holy Angels church are having more
sex than I am?’”
“I understand,” said Casey, realizing that anything else would
constitute little more a useless swipe at water long since gone
over the dam.
#
The mud-lark’s trial was set for four weeks later, with Casey
subpoenaed as a witness. Eleven o’clock in the morning. His golf
game ruined! What a total cockup! Damn that poor box! And,
double damn everything and everybody associated with that
moronic buzzer! At ten fifteen they called him that morning to
say the-mud lark had pled guilty, so, no trial. Damn and blazes!
Couldn’t they have called earlier? His entire day ruined! Or,
maybe not. His buddies were playing golf at Peach Tree not more
than twenty miles away and, if he drove there like mad, he might
even catch them at the tenth hole. Besides, they’d mentioned
something about a “must see” movie called “Sleepless in
Seattle.” Another fantasy to keep him going for a little while.
Not ideal, of course, for any middle aged man in this kind of

18

pathetic life-place, where he’s reduced to finding comfort in
fantasizing about bloody statues and made-up Hollywood romances.
What a hell of a long way that is from how God intended ordinary
people to find life comfort in the love of a permanent, caring
partner? Someday, he must take a crack at dealing with that. But
not today! Today, it’s long past time to throw his clubs in the
car and be on his way for half a round, because, like his mother
was wont to say, “Half a loaf is better than no bread.”


