The  dancers  line  up  in  their  green  and  yellow  dresses  with  the  big  ruffles  around  the  waist,  taking  tiny  
steps  to  form  an  even  line.  But  Eddie  sits  in  the  second  row.  
The  music  begins.  But  Eddie  is  still.  This  is  all  his  body  will  allow.  He  is  like  a  little  red  apapane  with  
broken  wings.  Or  more  like  a  nene,  a  silly  old  goose.    
He  feels  the  sei,  the  rope  of  tuberose  flowers  in  his  hair.  The  Gracious  Ladies  gave  it  to  him  to  wear,  as  if  
he  were  dancing  with  them.  The  sei’s  weight  and  fragrance  make  him  feel  like  yes,  he  is  the  fragile  little  
apapane.    
But  no,  his  body  reminds  him.  His  graceful  motions  are  gone  now.  Now  his  shoulders  and  neck  pinch  
together  like  a  fist,  pushing  his  flowered  head  down  and  forward.  He  is  old  and  broken  down.    
On  the  little  stage,  Michael  slaps  his  ipu  heke,  joining  the  recording  of  guitar  and  flute.  Beside  him,  
Stephanie  begins  to  sing.  Such  a  lovely  smile.  The  ladies  begin  to  rotate  their  hips  and  arms.  It  is  one  of  
his  favorite  Liliuokalani  songs.  Queen  Liliuokalani.  Stephanie  sings  “He  ʻala  nei  e  moani  mai  nei.”  The  
Gracious  Ladies  step  up  and  back  and  roll  their  hips.  Their  hands  and  arms  sway  and  wave  from  the  
elbow,  shoulder  and  wrist.  

The  shortest  oldest  dancer,  a  Filipina  named  Norma,  catches  his  eye  from  her  corner  of  the  stage  and  
loves  him  with  a  huge  smile.  Eddie  raises  his  hand  just  a  little,  and  waves  of  his  fingers.  
“Are  you  okay?”  It’s  the  woman  beside  him  who  they  sent  to  bring  him  to  the  show.  He  can’t  remember  
her  name.  “Do  you  feel  sick?”  She  touches  his  arm.  She  thinks  he  is  waving  to  her,  right  beside  him.  As  if  
he  were  mute.  

1  
  

He  looks  back  to  the  dancers.  “I’m  fine,  dear.”  Except  for  the  cancer  eating  him  away.  Except  that  he  
can’t  dance.  Or  sing.  Except  that  he  is  an  old  nene  goose.  
“They  look  beautiful  up  there,”  the  woman  whispers,  trying  to  sound  generous  but  sounding  surprised.  
For  being  so  old,  she  doesn’t  say.  
Eddie  clears  his  throat.  “Yes.  They  always  look  beautiful.”  He  wants  other  people  to  hear  him.  But  they  
do  not.  His  voice  is  whisper-­‐weak  even  when  he  doesn’t  want  it  to  be.  
The  woman  slides  her  hand  down  his  arm,  to  rest  on  top  of  his  hand.  His  hand  still  has  the  purple  and  
yellow  IV  bruises  from  the  hospital  four  days  ago.  She  squeezes  his  hand  to  try  to  make  him  feel  better.  
A  nice  thing  to  do,  but  Eddie  resents  the  distraction  from  hula.  
  
When  Eddie  his  father’s  farm  in  China  for  Hawai’i,  his  name  was  Qian  and  he  was  twenty  years  old.  A  
hundred  flowers  and  a  great  leap  forward  had  made  his  father  poor  and  worried  for  his  future  income.  
He  had  just  enough  money  hidden  to  send  one  of  his  children  on  the  huge  boat  to  Hawai’i,  where  the  
adult  child  would  send  money  back  to  the  family.  Each  of  his  four  older  children  had  specific  work  to  do  
on  the  farm,  so  it  was  the  youngest  Qian  they  loaded  up  one  night  to  go  to  Hawai’i.  “It  soon  will  be  a  
part  of  the  United  States.  Believe  me.”  These  were  the  last  words  his  father  said  to  him.  Qian  did  not  
believe  him,  but  he  was  glad  to  go.  
Qian  wanted  to  be  in  California.  And  not  for  the  old  Gold  Mountain  reasons.  He  wanted  to  go  to  
California  to  find  a  man,  to  fall  in  love  with  a  man.  A  man  who  would  love  him  and  make  him  happy.  
That  seemed  possible  in  California.    
Hawai’i  was  not  as  far  as  California,  but  it  was  different  from  China.  In  Hawai’i,  bodies  were  darker.  Men  
dressed  more  like  women.  Everything  was  slow.    And  it  rained.  All  the  time  in  Hilo  it  rained.    
2  
  

He  needed  a  new  name,  so  he  chose  an  American  name.  He  chose  “Eddie”  because  of  all  the  handsome  
singing  Eddies  who  were  so  big  when  he  arrived  at  Hawai’i.  Fisher,  Arnold,  Cochran.  
Eddie  found  a  chicken  farm  to  work  on.  That’s  what  he  knew.  The  chickens  lived  on  the  side  of  a  steep  
hill  overlooking  a  dense  forest  of  trees  with  huge  wide  flat  leaves  that  looked  like  nothing  in  China.  Eddie  
and  the  other  two  workers  every  morning  climbed  across  the  muddy  hill  in  their  little  sandals  to  search  
for  hidden  eggs  laid  by  protective  chickens.  He  did  not  miss  his  family,  though  he  did  send  a  little  money.  
He  wondered  if  the  money  made  it  to  his  father.  He  thought  about  the  kind  of  man  he  might  find  in  
California.  
After  a  couple  years  at  the  chicken  farm  on  the  side  of  the  hill,  Eddie  became  friends  with  the  boss’s  
wife  Evelyn.  Evelyn  was  tall,  and  slim  for  a  married  lady.  She  wore  her  hair  in  an  Audrey  Hepburn  
beehive  with  a  long  ponytail.  She  helped  Eddie  with  his  English.  He  studied  at  night  with  books  she  let  
him  borrow.  And  then,  Evelyn  took  him  to  a  large  family  dinner,  outside  with  a  big  roast  pig  and  
pineapple.  There  Eddie  first  saw  hula.  At  the  outside  party,  he  felt  hula.  
Eddie  was  transfixed.  The  sweet  flow  of  the  Hawaiian  words,  so  different  from  the  abrupt  and  
demanding  sound  of  Chinese  and  English.  The  rich  rustling  of  the  guitar,  the  slow  pop-­‐pop  of  the  drums.  
The  dancing  together  smooth  and  smiling  and  open  and  free.  He  couldn’t  understand  the  words,  but  
that  did  not  matter.  Eddie  looked  for  hula  every  time  he  went  out  to  the  beach  or  any  busy  place.  Soon  
he  learned  where  to  find  it,  and  he  get  away  from  the  farm  and  stand  off  behind  the  clusters  of  white  
tourists  to  soak  it  all  in.    
A  little  while  later,  at  the  funeral  for  Evelyn’s  aunt  who  died  in  the  tsunami,  Eddie’s  own  hula  began.  He  
was  sitting  with  Evelyn  and  her  sister  Susan  at  the  drink  table  outside,  guarding  the  Blue  Nun  wine.  
Guarding  it  because  they  didn’t  want  the  kids  drinking  it,  because  Evelyn  said  wine  was  expensive  in  Hilo  
and  they  didn’t  want  to  waste  it  on  the  kids.  Evelyn  and  Susan  were  talking  in  low  voices  behind  the  
3  
  

drink  table,  getting  up  to  pour  Coca-­‐Cola  or  lemonade  when  someone  came  by.  Eddie  understood  about  
half  of  what  they  said  in  their  pretty  English,  their  expressive  rhythm  making  the  flat  square  words  
worth  listening  to.  He  laughed  when  they  laughed.    
The  conversation  turned  to  familiar  complaints:  Hawaiian  men  get  fat  when  they  get  old,  and  the  sex  is  
bad  because  the  men  are  so  lazy.  Eddie  enjoyed  this  topic.  Even  though  it  was  a  funeral,  Susan  used  
dramatic  hand  gestures  that  made  it  easy  to  follow  along.  She  did  “fat  belly”  and  “sex  act”  with  her  
hands.  They  laughed.    
A  Hawaiian  man  stopped  at  the  drink  table  and  silenced  them  with  a  wide  smile.  He  was  very  handsome,  
with  a  wide  face  and  deep  brown  eyes.  His  teeth  were  very  large  and  straight.  
“Hello,”  the  man  said,  smiling  even  bigger.  He  looked  at  Eddie.  Eddie  stared  back.  
“Hello,”  said  the  three  back  to  the  man.  Evelyn  reached  over  and  gave  Eddie’s  arm  a  push,  for  him  to  
stand  up.  Eddie  stood  up.  
The  man  said  something  to  Eddie,  a  question.  Eddie  didn’t  understand  him.    
Evelyn  stood  up  and  pushed  a  wine  bottle  along  the  table  to  Eddie.  “Here  it  is,”  she  said,  so  Eddie  would  
understand.  She  handed  Eddie  a  paper  cup  and  sat  back  down.  A  hula  began  to  play  over  the  big  
speakers  propped  in  the  house  windows.  Eddie  loved  this  music.  He  and  the  man  were  still  staring  at  
each  other.    
“Blue  Nun,”  said  Eddie,  knowing  these  words  and  hoping  the  fact  that  they  were  short  would  hide  his  
accent.    
“Please.  Thank  you.”  The  man  laughed  in  a  friendly  way.  

4  
  

Eddie  felt  big  and  free.  Without  thinking,  his  hips  gave  a  happy  little  sway  to  the  music.  He  caught  
himself  and  stopped.  He  felt  himself  blushing.  He  looked  down  to  pour  the  wine.  
The  man  was  pleased.  “You  hula.”    
Eddie  wanted  to  say  yes.  He  wanted  to  dance  for  this  man.  But  he  didn’t  know  hula.  Only  the  first  arm  
movements.  Waves  on  water.  One  of  Susan’s  daughters  had  taught  him  a  couple  months  ago.  He  didn’t  
say  anything.  He  handed  the  cup  to  the  man.  Their  hands  touched.    
  “Will  you  dance  hula  for  me?”  the  man  asked.  Evelyn  and  Susan  both  made  a  surprise  noise  from  
behind  Eddie.    
When  a  Hawaiian  person  asks  you  to  hula,  and  you  are  a  Hawaiian  person  who  dances  hula,  then  you  
dance  hula.  You  can’t  refuse.  Honor,  history,  family  pride,  love  of  home.  These  were  the  reasons  that  
Evelyn  had  managed  to  explain  to  Eddie.  
“No,  no  hula,”  Eddie  said,  hearing  his  Chinese  accent.    
  
The  man’s  name  was  Glen.  Three  months  after  that  picnic,  he  moved  Eddie  in  to  his  house  on  the  other  
side  of  the  island,  Kona  side,  where  it  did  not  rain  all  the  time  and  there  were  more  nice  houses.  Eddie  
quit  his  job  at  the  chicken  farm.  He  started  dancing  hula  with  Susan’s  daughter’s  group  in  Kona.    
Eddie  tried  the  men’s  hula  parts  at  first.  But  the  songs  he  loved  the  most,  and  the  way  he  wanted  to  
dance  with  his  hips  more  than  arms  and  legs,  these  things  made  him  long  for  the  female  role.  After  
almost  a  year,  and  after  one  week  practicing  the  question,  he  asked.  “Miss  Coreen,  can  I  try  the  other  
part?”    

5  
  

The  leader  glanced  up  at  Eddie’s  finger,  stuck  out  pointing  to  the  women’s  line.  “Sure,  babe,  do  what  
comes  natural.  That’s  the  way  hula  should  be  done,  don’t  you  agree?”    
From  then  on,  Eddie  was  a  girl  in  hula.  The  women  giggled  and  welcomed  him  with  coos  and  playful  
little  nudges  of  their  hips  to  his.  The  hula  men  didn’t  seem  to  care.  
He  practiced  in  the  kitchen  of  Glen’s  house  while  he  made  dinner.  When  he  held  a  knife  or  the  handle  of  
a  pan,  he  did  his  arm  motions  with  only  a  little  flip  of  elbow.  After  work,  Glen  would  take  off  his  suit  and  
shower,  and  they  would  eat  dinner.  Then,  after  cleaning  up  the  kitchen,  Eddie  would  dance  for  Glen.  He  
would  enter  the  living  room,  take  off  his  shirt,  and  dance  one  or  two  songs  in  front  of  the  large  windows.  
During  the  warmest  months,  the  sun  would  start  to  set  orange  behind  him  while  he  danced.  Eddie  was  
beautiful.  Glen  would  sit  totally  still,  watching  Eddie’s  body  move  in  a  more  and  more  relaxed  and  
natural  flow  as  the  weeks  and  months  passed.  Eddie’s  hips  revolved  and  pushed  gently  toward  and  away  
from  Glen.  Glen  watched  from  the  leather  chair  with  his  glass  of  vodka.  The  songs  on  the  records  Eddie  
got  from  hula  friends  told  stories  of  the  emotional  lives  of  birds  and  flowers  and  ocean  breezes.  Then  
they  would  make  love.    
It  was  a  quiet  life.  Glen  did  not  talk  a  lot.  Hula  was  easier  than  English.  Eddie  learned  English  more  slowly  
now,  as  much  from  television  as  from  conversation.  
The  Hawaii  years  were  the  best  years  of  Eddie’s  life.  He  felt  this,  and  he  tried  to  make  them  last.  And  
they  did  last.  Eddie  didn’t  visit  his  family  in  China,  though  he  promised  in  the  rare  letter  that  he  would.  
He  sent  a  little  money  when  Glen  said  it  was  okay.    
Then  suddenly,  or  suddenly  for  Eddie,  they  packed  up  the  little  house  and  moved  to  California.  To  
Oakland.  A  business  opportunity,  Glen  said,  in  the  car  selling  business.  Also,  Glen  said  he  was  sick  of  the  
small  island  life.  Eddie  was  afraid  to  lose  hula,  but  it  was  California.  And  it  was  Glen.  

6  
  

Eddie  got  a  job  to  help  pay  for  the  house  they  rented.  Like  the  house  on  Hilo,  it  was  on  a  hill  and  had  a  
view  of  the  sunset  from  big  windows  in  the  living  room.  Eddie  found  a  job  at  a  health  clinic.  His  
Mandarin  got  him  hired.  He  did  fine  at  the  job  in  the  filing  room.  The  work  was  easy  compared  to  the  
chicken  farms.  He  could  work  slowly.  He  enjoyed  talking  to  Chinese  people  again.  Glen  didn’t  seem  to  
care  to  watch  him  anymore,  so  Eddie  never  danced  after  dinner  in  California.  
After  a  few  years,  Eddie  found  hula.  Someone  at  the  clinic  mentioned  hula  one  day.  There  was  hula  in  
California.  The  group  met  at  a  church  building.    
In  the  hula  group,  the  teacher  again  did  not  mind  that  Eddie  wanted  to  dance  with  the  women.  This  was  
good  because,  now  that  he  danced  with  the  older  group,  there  were  no  other  men.  Now  he  was  a  
Gracious  Lady.  
“Sing  out,  ladies,”  said  the  leader,  until  all  the  women  but  Eddie  were  singing  the  songs  about  love  and  
the  ocean  and  flowers  and  people  pining  for  the  islands.  Eddie  was  afraid  at  first  to  sing  out  loud.  He  
would  have  to  sing  the  girl  parts.  And  he  had  never  sung  to  anyone,  not  even  to  Glen.  He  only  sung  to  
himself.  But  he  knew  most  of  the  words  to  so  many  songs.    
“Eddie,  don’t  you  sing?”  said  Nina  one  day.  Nina  was  young,  but  she  always  sat  and  watched  with  great  
attention  when  Eddie  and  the  rest  of  the  Gracious  Ladies  danced.  
Eddie  giggled,  not  something  he  usually  did.  “No,  dear,  just  in  my  own  head.  I  love  Lili  ‘uokalani’s  songs.”    
“Of  course,”  Nina  agreed.  “And  you  should  sing.  It  makes  it  more  fun.  It  makes  your  heart  …”  She  put  her  
hands  over  her  heart  like  praying.  “…  join  your  hips!”  She  put  her  hands  on  her  hips  and  dipped  and  
rolled.  “Right?”  She  winked.  They  both  laughed.  Like  he  laughed  with  Evelyn.  
From  then  on  he  sang.  Quiet  at  first,  and  then  louder  as  the  others  encouraged  him.  He  learned  more  
songs,  more  Hawaiian  words.  He  was  happy  again,  like  in  the  first  sunset  house  in  Kona.  
7  
  

A  while  after  Eddie  began  singing  out  loud  at  hula,  Glen  left.  He  went  back  to  Hawaii.  He  didn’t  ask  Eddie  
what  Eddie  wanted  to  do.  So  Eddie  just  let  him  go.    
Eddie  moved  into  a  small  apartment  near  the  health  clinic,  which  was  not  a  good  neighborhood  but  was  
what  he  could  afford  with  his  paycheck.  He  bought  a  little  red  car  from  someone  at  the  clinic.  Two  girls  
from  the  hula  group  taught  him  how  to  drive.  One  newspaper  box  was  all  he  smashed  with  his  car.  
Other  hula  groups  started  to  ask  him  to  join  them,  to  dance  with  their  Gracious  Ladies  but  more  to  sing.  
People  called  his  voice  a  counter-­‐tenor,  it  was  so  high  and  strong.  Eddie  drove  his  little  car  all  over,  from  
Berkeley  to  San  Ramon,  to  Fremont.  The  hula  groups  that  were  mostly  women,  some  mostly  Filipina,  
some  more  Japanese-­‐Hawaiian,  some  a  mix  of  white,  black,  Latina,  all  kinds  of  Asian.  He  met  another  
Chinese  man  at  one  group.  Eddie  laughed  at  the  girls  in  terrycloth  headbands  and  legwarmers  at  hula.  
Like  it  was  an  aerobics  class.  
The  years  passed.  The  area  around  his  apartment  got  more  dangerous  and  then  less  dangerous,  and  
then  more  dangerous  again.  Gunshots  at  night.  People  driving  around  slowly  watching  each  other.  
Teddy  bears  and  flowers  and  cardboard-­‐box  R.I.P.  signs  piled  up  where  someone  was  shot.  Eddie  was  a  
fixture  though,  in  his  apartment  building  and  around  the  sidewalks.  So  people  watched  out  for  him.  The  
young  handsome  black  men  in  too-­‐big  jeans  would  nod  to  Eddie,  flash  him  a  smile.    
He  decided  that  making  people  know  him  kept  him  safe.  Once  he  thought  people  were  forgetting  him,  
so  he  took  some  hibiscus  flowers  from  a  hula  show  and  wore  them  in  his  hair  to  the  corner  store.  “Look  
at  her,”  a  fat  Filipina  girl  said  to  everyone  around.  He  did  a  little  hula  step  and  gave  her  the  flower  and  
made  a  friend.  Divina  was  her  name.  Then  he  felt  known  again,  safe.    
Aches  and  pains  were  normal  now,  day  to  day,  but  Eddie  stayed  with  hula.  After  a  few  days  of  extra  pain  
in  his  low  back  and  some  other  unpleasant  things  in  the  bathroom  that  scared  him,  a  doctor  at  work  did  

8  
  

tests  on  him  and  told  him  that  he  had  cancer.  The  cancer  was  in  his  bladder.  He  went  to  the  hospital  
during  the  day  for  medicine  and  radiation.  He  got  worse  with  vomiting  and  sleep  that  did  not  feel  good.  
Then  he  got  better  and  slowly  went  back  to  work  and  then  back  to  hula.  Then  the  cancer  was  back,  in  his  
bones  this  time.  He  had  to  stay  and  sleep  in  the  hospital.  More  radiation,  more  medicine,  more  
vomiting,  more  bad  sleep,  more  pain.  Hula  ladies  visited  him  and  brought  him  bird-­‐of-­‐paradise  flowers  
and  mango  slices  and  ginger  ale.    
When  he  got  out  of  the  hospital,  he  went  back  to  work  part-­‐time.  People  didn’t  need  his  help  much  at  
all  now.  The  file  room  was  used  less  and  less.  People  stayed  at  the  computers.  Eddie  would  sing  hula  
songs  and  dance  in  the  file  room  very  slowly  now  because  he  was  frail.  “Frail  elderly”  is  what  they  called  
people  like  him  at  the  clinic.  He  looked  up  hula  shows  on  the  computer.  To  be  useful  and  so  they  
wouldn’t  decide  to  take  his  job  away,  Eddie  started  to  feed  the  clinic  from  the  file  room,  big  salads  and  
tuna  fish  sandwiches  for  the  waves  of  beautiful  medical  students  and  other  new  staff  coming  through.  It  
was  like  Glen’s  kitchen.  Alone  most  of  the  day  with  hula.  Showing  his  value  through  food.    
After  the  hospital  stay,  one  of  the  girls  from  hula  would  call  each  week  to  ask  if  he  wanted  a  ride  to  hula.  
Sometimes  he  said  yes.  Sometimes  he  was  too  weak  and  tired,  so  he  had  to  say  no.  When  he  went  to  
hula,  he  would  stand  beside  the  wall  and  lean  on  his  clear  plastic  cane  with  the  ribbons  tied  on  it.  Eddie  
would  sway  a  little  while  the  ladies  danced,  just  to  be  with  them  and  with  the  hula.  He  would  sway  and  
hum  the  song  until  he  had  to  sit  down.    
  
Tonight,  the  Gracious  Ladies  stand  in  their  line,  breathing  deeply  between  songs.  Hands  are  beside  hips,  
fingers  curled  just  so  into  little  O-­‐shapes.  All  down  the  line,  one  bare  foot  is  flat  on  the  stage,  while  the  
other  heel  is  lifted  and  the  knee  bent.    The  next  hula  song  begins.  It  is  “Hilo  E.”  About  Eddie’s  home  on  
the  islands,  where  he  first  landed  and  first  found  hula.  He  taught  them  this  song.  It  is  short  and  has  easy  
9  
  

words.  It  is  about  the  lehua  flower  in  a  lei  and  where  it  grows.  Stephanie  begins  to  sing,  and  turns  her  
big  smile  to  Eddie.  The  hula  leader  turns  from  her  seat  in  the  front  row.  She  winks  at  him.  He  smiles.  
Eddie  watches  his  friends  dance,  flowers  in  their  hair  just  like  his.  You  always  smile  when  you  dance.  It  is  
the  first  thing  he  remembers  from  his  first  hula  group  in  Hilo.  He  was  so  in  love  with  hula  that  he  
thought  he  was  in  love  with  the  man  he  danced  for.  You  always  smile  when  you  dance.  It  is  not  a  
command  to  look  cheerful.  It  is  how  hula  works.    
Eddie  sniffs  and  swallows  carefully,  to  stop  his  tears  and  to  see  if  his  throat  will  work  for  him.  He  opens  
his  mouth  to  sing  along  with  Stephanie  onstage,  about  the  lehua  grove.  He  makes  a  scratchy  squawky  
sound.  Not  a  counter-­‐tenor,  just  a  goose  or  a  little  hurt  bird.  Is  there  a  hula  about  a  nene?    
The  woman  next  to  him  is  startled  by  his  squawking  noise.  “Are  you  alright,  Mister  Eddie?”  she  whispers,  
placing  her  hand  on  his  hand  again.    
Eddie  clears  his  throat.  They  dance  the  Hilo  song  for  him.  He  smiles  at  his  Gracious  Ladies.  “Yes,  dear,  I  
am  fine.  I  am  just  an  old  man  now.”    

10  
  


