Esmeralda fastened her red feather headdress and
checked her catlike eyeliner. She then did an over the
shoulder mirror check of the back of her head-to-toe white
glittery spandex jumpsuit. She shook her arms to untangle
the two feet of white tassels extending below both arms.
She felt like she should crow or cockadoodle doo. Instead
she whispered to herself “I tawt I taw a puddy tat.” She
laughed, her nose crinkly with the absurdity of what she
was once again about to do.
She extended her arms and shook them again. She
then headed for the staging area, looking at her image as
she passed each mirror of the cramped dressing room. She
looked like a sequined swan that had mated with a short
Vegas showgirl. At least her butt looked good tonight.

Beseme el culo, the wrong underwear could be devastating
in white spandex pants, she thought. Oh, my Sylvia could
use some new shapeware undies, she thought, taking her
position behind the aging circus performer.
“Ready girls,” Sylvia crooned. As the senior show
woman and the lover of the “creative director” of the
troupe, Sylvia led the girls in each night. Sylvia wore a
white shimmering feather headdress notably taller than the
other girls’ feathers. As gravity pulled body parts
downward, her headdress seemed to grow taller and head
skyward. Esmerada could swear that Sylvia’s headdress
was an inch taller with each show.
Esmerada flashed to one of her visual survival modes
and imagined Sylvia’s headdress bursting through the
circus bigtop, while her bottom swung so low it scraped the
ground. She viewed these little mental moments like

someone watching a quick promo for a new show or a brief
infomercial. It was like she saw it on her own little remote
TV screen, switching in and out of reality like someone
switches channels. One does what one needs to do to
survive, she thought, missing her cue, but quickly falling
into step with the other girls.
The ladies, all in the same white spandex attire, only
with different headdresses, then pranced and danced about
in an awkward attempt to reenact a showgirl opening
number. Holding their arms out, tassels dangling, they
pointed their toes and tried to glide their feet in unison,
holding their heads as erect as joint-less Barbie dolls. They
were all lean and physically fit, but with the muscular legs
of circus gymnasts, not the long, seemingly endless legs of
show girls. Their stubby little legs wanted to break into
double flips and triple twist cartwheels. They moved more

like overly trained pigeons than graceful swans. Esmeralda
knew this; the others did not. They ended the parade of
birds by gliding out, leaving the audience clapping
hesitantly.
Esmeralda ran to make her fastest costume change.
Two other girls helped her strip the white jumpsuit and
quickly pull on a black one. She joined her sister, Rosa, by
the opening curtain flap and awaited their entrance.
The Ringmaster took the spotlight in the center of the
ring and announced the next act. “Originally from the
Yucatan in Mexico, and now proud US citizens,” Roy
Ortiz, in his sequined jacket and top hat, paused for the
applause, and then yelled “The Vargas Family!”
Smoke rolled out into the center ring and The Vargas
Family burst through the curtain to a dramatic drum roll
and the sound of brooding music – the kind of music used

to build tension in an audience. Wearing black full-length
leotards with white lined accents on the sleeves and bell
bottom cuffs, the eight members of the troupe sprung into
place. Bent kneed and ready like spandex covered black
cats, they prepared for their first feat of the night.
In the ready for the first tumbling routine, Esmeralda
braced herself and then sprung backwards from her cousins
Cesar and Miguel’s strong hands. A single back flip and
she landed soundly in her brothers Jesus and Ariel’s hands
some 8 feet away. Applause… and then more bounding and
audience “aws’ as The Vargas Family built the suspense
much like a Fourth of July fireworks show, ending with the
finale of a triple twist, double flip two-person switch to
thunderous applause.

They bounded out, taking bows and pointing their
toes, waving and exiting the same way they came in. For
Esmeralda it was another night in a two-show day. With
only boredom and circus soap opera antics to mark her
time, each day passed as slowly as the ticking of a clock,
slowly tracking each second of each minute of each hour of
each day. Some people dreamed of running away to join
the circus, Esmeralda dreamed of running away.
In fact, she regularly channeled switched from reality
to her imaginary runaway attempts. While helping to clean
the costumes or pack up for the next move, she would
imagine high-flying escapes. Sometimes she did a triple
spiral twist right out the top of the tent into an awaiting fire
red convertible driven by the man of her dreams. The man
of her dreams was blond, tanned, white toothed and wore
striped polo shirts, Levis and white Adidas with a light blue

stripe. He came to the San Bernadino, California, show and
winked at her when she walked by in her bird costume and
then met her eyes directly with his gorgeous baby blues just
as she did a perfect landing of her triple twist, double flip
two-person switch. Another wink and she was head over
heels in love. From that time on he was part of each of her
circus escape fantasies.
She usually channel switched to her favorite escape
during weekly circus troupe meetings, while Hector the
Horrible, the creative director, who came from Siberia,
went on about safety precautions and the need for more
“innovation to keep up with the competition.” His thick
Russian accent, made it difficult to understand him, but it
didn’t matter because she was channel switching the whole
time – in and out of his rantings. The meetings were
always full of tension as the troupe was mostly made up of

Russian and Mexican immigrants, some citizens and some
with only green cards. The Russians were superior in every
way. They walked in a superior fashion, looking down their
noses at the Mexican families that for decades had been the
core of the Circus Magnificio. The Mexicans knew the
Russians were paid better and had the better trailers and
dressing rooms. Hector saw to this and he made his
preferences for his Russian countrymen obvious.
Sometimes he spoke only in Russian with no translation for
the Spanish speaking families. This was a particularly good
time for Esmeralda to click into survival mode and switch
out.
The meetings usually lasted at least 45 minutes,
allowing more time for Esmeralda to channel switch to her
most elaborate escape fantasy. In this fantasy, she would
trick one of the Sanchez brothers into a dressing closet,

lock him in and don his motorcycle helmet and jumpsuit.
She then would take his place for the suicide ball entrance
and do the routine perfectly, but when it was time to exit
she would do a circle around the ring, pop a wheelie and
ride out the front entrance of the tent to freedom. Her
Adidas wearing dream guy was always waiting to hop on
the back and ride off into the sunset. Unfortunately, she had
a tendency to do motorcycle sounds while channel
switching to this fantasy and reentered reality with Hector
the Horrible staring at in a disapproving way.
At bedtime she also would try to fall asleep by
imagining her escape. Of course, there was the standard
cannonball one, where upon being shot out of the cannon,
she landed in the fire red convertible and her Adidas guy
kissed her and they drove away. There was also the one
where the Adidas guy posed as a popcorn supply truck

driver and smuggled her out in the popcorn truck. Or the
one where in the middle of the trapeze act her dream guy
turns out to be the catcher complete with white Adidas and
they do a bounce exit into the net, dismount in unison and
run from the circus, jumping into the red convertible and
spinning the tires while racing away. Or there was the
escape in Curious George fashion, where she grabs a large
bunch of circus balloons and is lifted skyward to an
awaiting helium balloon complete with her Adidas wearing
guy. They float happily off into the sunset.
Finally, there was the super exciting, ultra climatic -riding the elephant right out of the tent, causing a collapse
of the tent when the elephant hits the entry door poles.
Esmeralda then would ride the elephant into a full sized
moving truck. She could never fully rationalize why she
and her Adidas guy took the elephant with them, but it

seemed to make it a better ending. Plus it could be a win
win with freedom for Ellie the Elephant, too.
Esmeralda realized that all her fantasies were totally
unrealistic, but the mere thought of escape eased the
monotony of her days. She understood that to some people
it might seem glamorous to wear sequined costumes and to
perform for “adoring” audiences while performing
dangerous acrobatic feats. But honestly, sequins, glamour
and acrobatic feats were all she had ever known. And the
constant moving from one city to the next, always
traveling, always in transition, was unsettling. “Mierda,”
she was a Pisces and not the least bit cut out for this
nomadic life. She needed stability and a place to call home
and a library card.
Esmeralda had developed a nasty habit of reading
when she was very young. She would have given anything

for an international American Express type library card –
you know one that was good anywhere and you could just
drop the book off at the next town and check out new ones
as you traveled from city to city. In fact, that was another
one of her fantasies.
No librarian in her right mind, however, would give a
card to a transient, traveling, nomadic, spandex wearing
circus performer. Think of the overdue fines. No she would
never have a library card.
Was it too much to ask that she have an ordinary life –
a library card, a little yellow house in an ordinary
neighborhood, with an ordinary family and her Adidas
wearing guy? No sequins, no spandex, no feathers or
double flips, just ordinary everyday American life. That
was all she wanted, well and a library card.

So, as they pulled into San Fernando, Calif., and set up
camp outside the city, she decided this was the place to
make her move. It had been a year since she saw her
Adidas guy and it had been here. He would be back, she
told herself, and she would be ready.
The first show of the first night her stomach was full
of butterflies and not from doing backward somersaults and
forward flips. No Adidas guy.
As the second show started and she got in line behind
Sylvia, her optimism had plummeted. Her destiny was here,
channel shifting and waiting to have to wear uplifting
underwear with her spandex suit. No library card, no
ordinary life, no Adidas guy.
The procession started and again she missed her cue,
but quickly fell into line. Half way around the ring, she saw
him in the first row. He was waving and they made eye

contact. She blinked to make sure it wasn’t one of her
daydreams and when she opened her eyes he winked.
She made it back behind the curtain with her heart
pumping and made an immediate turn and walked back out,
right past Hector the Horrible in his black suit and top hat.
The audience started to mumble and Hector looked
confused, nodding his head for her to go back behind the
curtain. She ignored him with her feather headdress
bobbing as she confidently walked over to Adidas guy.
She took his hand and walked out of the circus tent,
dragging him behind her. He seemed confused but
followed.
“Where’s your car?” she asked.
“Over there,” he said, pointing to the far end of the
graveled lot.

No red convertible, she thought, as they walked up to
his rusting gold Duster.
“Are you abducting me?” he asked, still confused.
“No, I’m running away with you,” she said, smiling
and adjusting her feather headdress to get into his car. “You
are single, right?”
“Yeah, totally,” he said, starting to like the idea of a
spandex wearing circus girl running away with him.
“Great,” she said. “Let’s get out of here. Can you spin
the tires and make some gravel fly.”
“Sure,” he said, beaming as he hit the gas and spun
out, raining gravel down on all the cars parked nearby.
“Now, that’s how you make an exit,” Esmeralda said,
cranking up the tunes and moving closer to her dream guy.
They headed down the road and he said, “Gosh, this
might be hard to explain to my parents.”

“What do they do,” she said hitting buttons and
channel shifting through the FM stations.
“Dad’s a dentist and my mom is a librarian,” he said
looking apologetic.
“Perfect,” she said, taking off her headdress and
patting him on the knee. “Why don’t you take me straight
to the library and introduce me? I’m Esmeralda.”


