“It’s crisp out.” Those are the words the boy heard from his mother as he flew off the steps.
Those charming words, although succinct, carried a melodious charm. See, his mother was
charming and her voice… well, melodious. She had an air about her, a girlish kind; her face
revealed no solemnity, yet it did not reveal the utter jubilance a young girl would possess. That
natural glow had faded, and the crooks of her mouth began to slope downward. For a simple
description; she was kind.

She waved goodbye to her son, and with one last cautionary glance, she closed the door. To
her, it was frighteningly cold outside. It was the kind of chill that hangs in the air and slowly
surrounds you. Even when she had stepped inside, she found that her wool sweater and the
dimming fire did not seem to keep her warm enough. Perhaps, it was the damp towel loosely
wrapped around her head that gave her this unending chill and not the raw air. She moved on to
the kitchen- she did not feel anxiety here- where she did not feel as cold. She simply fried her
eggs and smoked her cigarette in between turns with the spatula and her coffee. This was her
routine; puff, flip, puff, stir, and reminding herself to exhale and inhale normally.

They lived in a charming house on the corner of Westbrook Avenue and Drider Street in a
quaint and, frankly, boring town in Upstate New York, just a 3 hour train ride to the city. It was a
wide ranch-style house, with a bright red brick wrapping around, and a black sloped roof. Large
shrubs crowded the front walk and in spring, yellow tulips adorned the garden. There was a
dusting of snow covering the walk that she had neglected to shovel off, or more so refused to.
But just as she was thinking, she heard a wrap at the door. Then, with a quick and mumbled,
“HOLD ON,” she turned off the stove with the cigarette dangly loosely from her stained lips.
She took one more inhale and exhale as she ran to the door. With the most extreme sense of
urgency, she flung it open.



“Uh ya, hi there, Ms. Watson!” It was a loud hello so early in the morning. It was from the
next door neighbor Fredrick. Fredrick was the neighborhood “boy.” He was kind, never once
heard speaking a vulgar word and always there before you asked. His freckled face, short brown
hair and blue eyes made him an instant companion to many. Ms. Watson found his unannounced
knock that morning to be rather annoying, especially when she heard an emphasized “ms.”
“Oh yes, hi Fred, aren’t you supposed to be on your way to school now, dear?” said Ms. Watson
as she puffed her cigarette with a forced smile. She had a way with the word dear; it was a apart
of her airy disposition to finish most sentences with it. To others, they viewed this word as
belonging with Ms. Watson; terminally attached.

!

“Yes I am, Ms. Watson, ma’am. But my mother wanted me to come over before and shovel your
walkway.”
“Oh really Fred, dear that’s not necessary, I can take care of it, it’s just light snow fall. Head off
to school.”
Fred seemed disappointed that he could not be of assistance, shrugged his shoulders, and said a
pleasant, “have a good day there Ms. Watson.” And with that, he ran off down the sidewalk with
a slip or two along the way.

!

Ms. Watson cringed at the “Ms.” again, and with the same urgency as she had opened the
door, she shut it. She stood in her foyer for a moment, a puff here and there from her slow
burning cigarette. White tile lined the foyer and a plain wall paper met it at an oak trim. She had
one print on the wall to the left of the door that she was particularly proud of; an ocean scene she
had ferociously fought for at an auction. She continued to stand there, enjoying the warmth of
her tattered rug beneath her feet, and the glow from her cigarette. She was contemplating when
she would weather the daunting task of shoveling her walk. Just then the phone rang, a rather
shrieking ring, in fact. The kind of ring that makes you simply not want to pick up the phone.
She took her time walking there saying, “I’m coming! I’m coming!” under her breath until she
got to the pink plastic phone.
“Hell-“
“ALICE! Darling, why didn’t you call me back yesterday?” Her mother’s voice carried through
the phone into the living room, as if the phone was not necessary.
“Mother, because, because I am fine, I have to scurry now dear, I’ll talk to you tomorrow.”
Alice heard her mother say “but Alice…” as she continued to drop the phone onto the carrier.
She pressed the butt into the glass ash tray on the side table beside the phone and walked back to
the kitchen as she remembered her eggs. She sat down with her fried eggs and a tall glass of
water and relaxed. She looked out her picture window and went over a tiny checklist of things to
do. As most days lately, there was hardly anything to do aside from menial cleaning tasks. She
sighed, a big deep rooted sigh, took a sip of water and appreciated the coolness rushing down her
throat.

!
!

Several hours later, the boy returned home to a clean, cold house that continued to hold the
same chill in the air and smoggy ceilings. He walked in vibrantly, adding the only light to the
house. He called to his mom as he dropped his books on the counter. Alice walked out of her
room with rollers built upon her head, which looked quite funny compared to the size to her slim
and delicate face.
“Oh, hi there Ben, dear.”
“Hi mom.” Ben replied as he surveyed her head. It was odd for him to see curlers in her
hair at such an early time of the day.
A smile grew on Alice’s face and her thin lips spread, “Now dear, what do you want for dinner?
Is there anything you want?” she leaned on the counter, looking at her son with an adoring gaze
whilst puffing on her fourth cigarette of the day. “Well, I suppose I’d love a steak and your

famous mashed potatoes,” his voice fading as he walked into his bedroom. Alice raising her
voice responded, “Why, I suppose that’s very possible dear!”

!

And on that note, Alice walked around the counter and pulled out one large steak and one
smaller from the fridge. She rinsed off the steaks, lit the stove, and proceeded to fry the steaks.
As the sizzle came from the stove, Alice opened the cabinet beside the sink and pulled out a
depleted bottle of Black and White, pouring it on the rocks into a small glass. She took a sip here
and there and listened to the sizzle of the steaks and the clink of the ice against the glass and
watched her cigarette fizzle out in her favorite ash tray on the table. The smoke carrying into the
air was hypnotizing. She watched the twirls and twists of the smoke as she sipped. Then, the
steaks began to sizzle beyond control, and as she scooped them onto a plate, she called for her
son. As she did this, she remembered that she had forgotten the mashed potatoes; a special
request. She threw the steaks onto the plate quickly and grabbed two russet potatoes, throwing
them into a pot and hoped they would be done before the steaks were actually consumed.

!

Ben sat down with the disappointment of seeing that there were not any potatoes on his
plate; see, it was not the one potato that irked him, rather the cumulative effect. “I am sorry dear,
I was just on another planet, I swear. They will be ready in just a minute, no worries now dear.”
She said this with a humble laugh as she picked up the two plates and her glass of scotch. A little
of it splashed as she placed her drink down on the blue Formica table. Ben grabbed his chair and
swung it around, sitting down to the one steak on a plain plate. Seeing there was not a glass full
of milk all ready for him he jumped up and helped himself.
Upon seeing her son jump up, Alice said with a breath of attempt, “Oh no, dear what’s wrong?
Can I grab you something, dear?”
“Oh no, ma, I'm just going to get a glass of milk…”
“Oh, you know honey, I just completely forgot about that, sit down dear, I’ll grab that.”
This time an embarrassing laugh slipped from an uncomfortable smile.
Alice placed the glass of cold milk down along with some salt and pepper for the steaks, and sat
down with her son.
She leaned slightly on the table as she asked her son about his day’s happenings.
“So tell me Ben dear, did you speak to that darling girl today?” An airy smile seeped
through as she took a sip of the scotch and swallowed her steak, which was noticeably dry and
practically fried to a crisp.
“Oh um no, she was simply just some doll that the guys and I liked to look at. You know, she
bobbed her hair a while ago so… you know…”
“Well now I certainly don’t think that’s an acceptable reason to stop liking a darling girl such as
her.”
Awkward silence filled the kitchen as they both chewed the tough steak. The pot started to clang
and Alice was reminded of the potatoes.
“Oops! Hold on a minute dear, the potatoes are ready.”
She served up the barely mashed boiled potatoes to Ben, who once again looked disappointedly
at the prepared food.
Alice saw this look.

“Dear… is there something wrong? Would you like butter?”
“Oh no, jeez mother it’s swell… but you know I was going to cut out before it got too dark so I
could skate with some of the boys and do homework.”
“Oh, um, ok, well you uh, you go now.”
Ben hopped up and grabbed his coat and walked out the door without skates and without
homework.
She watched him, his head hung low and his hands pushed deep into his fur lined coat pockets
while he walked further and further down the side walk.

!

Alice saw this and knew. She looked at the table and knew. There was half of a crispy steak
and cold mashed potatoes and nothing but a couple of drops of lukewarm milk in his glass.
With two more sips, she sat down at the table alone and looking at her son’s plate. She sat there.
Sad. In silence. Alone.

!

She lit another cigarette and finished her scotch at a surprisingly quick rate and poured
herself a glass of cool water to chase the burn. She collected the dirty dishes and threw out the
steaks and the potatoes, placing the dishes in the sink, letting them clink. She walked away
toward the phone. Placing the needle on Pat Boone’s “April Love,” she swayed as she lit a
cigarette. As she smoked, she closed her eyes and slowly unraveled her curlers to let her delicate
blonde hair fall and sway along her hips.

!
!
JULY 63’
!

Smiled. They smiled. They smiled at each other as they drove along the coast of
Massachusetts. It was a stereotype they were fulfilling. Her hair locked in an expensive scarf
with the scarf’s tails trailing in the wind as they drove. His eyes gazed into hers, admiring her
happiness. He looked back and forth, first at the road and then at her outward happiness as he
drove. It was a beautiful summer’s day in ‘63. “April Love” was playing and they continued to
fulfill this cliché moment. The buffering of the wind disappeared and the scratchy radio was the
only thing to be heard.

!

She admired his dark brown hair and gleaming white teeth against his tan skin. It was a
perfect summer. He admired the childlike wonder she displayed during a simple drive down the
coast, and her hair… that one blonde curl peeking through her chiffon scarf wrap.

!

He made a quick right turn into the beach parking lot and they hopped out of the mint
coloured Studebaker.
And again, as if in a movie, they hugged each other and ran to their son, sun bathing on the
beach.
They sat there together, enjoying each other and listening to the radio fittingly playing, “Old
Cape Cod,” by Patti Page. The sun hit them and they bathed in the glows, talking and laughing,
each enjoying a glass of Black and White scotch.


