Perry still couldn’t believe how much his life had changed. Groceries. He never
thought he’d be responsible for the grocery shopping. His hands full of grocery bags,
Perry struggled to open the door that led from the garage to the house. As soon as he
entered the mudroom, he punched in the four-digit code. Six months and still not use
to this thing. Glad I followed Detective Williams’ advice. The detective had insisted on
Perry getting an alarm and a gun while that lunatic was still at large. Detective
Williams—Tony Williams, had been a godsend during the whole ordeal with Allison. He
said he’d find her and bring her to justice. And he did. Now, that crazy woman was
locked away. Still, Perry knew he needed to be cautious for Sara’s sake. He knew she
felt better having the alarm--no one could hurt her or her daddy with the alarm on.
Perry put the groceries away then stacked the breakfast dishes in the
dishwasher.

He had a couple of hours before he had to pick Sara up from her play

date, so he went to the laundry room and started a load of clothes. Saturday mornings
were always hectic. He didn’t know how Marisa had managed--swimming lessons,
ballet, shopping, laundry and then fixing dinner—it was overwhelming. But it all had to
be done and it was his job now.
Leaving the laundry room, he started down the hall toward his study then
stopped. Something lay in the middle of the hall. Perry looked around then stilled
himself and listened--the house was quiet. Slowly, he approached the object. It was a
picture from the wall. It laid face-down on the floor. He turned it over. The smiling


faces of Marisa and Sara with Mickey Mouse greeted him behind the shattered glass.
Perry looked up at the wall where the picture had hung. He stood up and looked around
again; everything seemed in order. The picture could have just fallen. But, it was odd,
very odd.
He carried the picture and a few shards of glass into his study and placed them
on the credenza. The room seemed unusually dark. He realized the blinds were
closed. He didn’t remember closing them, although he had worked late last night—
maybe he had. “Pull yourself together man,” he admonished himself. But Perry was
beginning to feel uneasy—his stomach churned. It was the same feeling he got when
he sensed Allison was near. “Come on. She’s 500 miles away.”
Perry sat down at his desk. He turned on the desk lamp. Everything was in its
place. Relieved, he sank into the leather chair and closed his eyes. He and Sara had
been through so much these last few months. He was tired. Sara was tired. But today,
she finally seemed happy to be going to her friend’s house. For a nine year old, her big
blue eyes were always sad, without life—she missed her mom.
His cell phone rang, startling him. Perry pulled it from his pocket and answered.
It could only be one person. “Hi.”
“Hi Honey,” the sultry voice said. I know Sara’s at her friend’s. I thought maybe I
could see you now. I could come through the back,” Cheryl said.
“Uhh…I don’t think so. It’s still too soon.”

The Best Laid Plans

3

“No one will see me. Haven’t I always been careful not to be seen? Plus, I’m
your administrative assistant. I have legitimate business with you,” she cooed.
“We’ve never met here and now’s not a good time Cheryl,”
“But, I want to see you. I bought something I know you’ll like,” she said, trying to
entice him.
“Not now! I’ll try to call you later. You knew this was how it was going to be for a
while,” he said, exasperated.
“Yeah, but—“
Perry’s house phone rang. “Listen, I’ve gotta go. I’ll call you later if things
change.” Perry flipped the phone shut and cut it off before Cheryl could object. He
answered the cordless phone checking the caller ID first. The number looked familiar.
Perry answered, “Hello?”
“Mr. Grayson, it’s Detective Williams.”
“Oh, I thought I recognized the number. It’s been a long time. How have you
been?”
“Mr. Grayson, this isn’t a social call,” he sounded frantic. “Listen. Allison Craig
escaped from Ravenhurst Asylum two days ago when they were transporting her to a
court hearing. We believe she’s--“

The Best Laid Plans

4

“She’s coming here,” Perry said. His stomach churned again. Why didn’t
someone notify me before now?” Perry waited for an answer. “Detective—Detective
Williams?” The line was dead. Perry dropped the phone. He pulled his desk drawer
open. The gun wasn’t there. He pulled the drawer out farther and looked. I cleaned it
and I know I put it back in this drawer. Unsure, he turned to the other side of the desk.
He jerked the drawer open and the one beneath that. It wasn’t there. The gun was
gone. Perry stood up, but the fragrance of jasmine and sandalwood stopped him. It
was his wife’s signature fragrance.
“Looking for this?” Allison asked standing in the door to the study holding the
gun.
“How did you…?”
“How did I get in? Umm,” she pretended to think. “Perry you never changed the
code to the garage. And you really should lock the door. Oh… and the alarm code…I
knew it either had to be your darling daughter’s birth date or your wife’s. I bet on your
daughter and here I am,” she smiled and curtsied. “Now sit down,” she motioned with
the gun. Allison walked into the room. “Perry. Perry. Perry” She was wearing Marisa’s
favorite lavender and cream sundress. Her dark hair hung in spiral curls framing her
face. “You were a very bad boy. You let them lock me up,” Allison said, leaning against
the credenza.
“Allison, you killed my wife. What was I supposed to do?”

The Best Laid Plans

5

“But how else were we going to be together? You said you wanted me to be
your wife. And she wouldn’t give you a divorce. What was I to do?”
“I never said…I didn’t mean for you to--”
“Oh…oh…the flirting… asking me to change my hair…the long romantic
lunches…that night at the office…the ‘if only I could be free.’ What? You didn’t mean
it?” Allison yelled.
“You’re angry. I understand. But you dressed up for me and you did your hair the
way I like it. So you can’t be too angry with me,” Perry said, trying to calm her.
Allison ignored the flattery. “Angry? No. Try pissed. You made them think I was
crazy--that I stalked you,” she said. “You sat there and did nothing--nothing to help me
after all I did for you—for us,” Allison said. She shook her head. “I can’t believe I was
so stupid.”
“Allison why don’t you give me the gun before someone gets hurt?”
She didn’t answer. She noticed the broken picture next to her on the credenza.
She picked up the picture frame and caressed it with the barrel of the gun. She stared
at it for a while and then she looked at Perry. Sara had his same dark features. Those
features are what attracted her to him—his wavy dark hair and those mesmerizing blue
eyes. Sara had those same stunning blue eyes.
Perry watched Allison carefully. He needed to get that gun away from her. He
had imagined this scenario or one like it countless times. What would he do if Allison

The Best Laid Plans

6

ever came after him and Sara? And now, Allison was here just as Cheryl predicted.
Amazing. He couldn’t help but to smile.
“You have the nerve to laugh at me?” She said pointing the gun at him again.
“I…I wasn’t laughing at you. I was remembering…”
“Don’t you know I could punish you? She pointed the gun at him. “Sitting alone in
my jail cell I had plenty of time to think. And you know what I realized? It wasn’t Marisa
that you cared about.” She waved the gun from side to side. “No. All along it was Sara.
Your darling, little daughter. So where is your precious little Sara?”
Perry’s eyes narrowed as he looked at Allison. “Leave Sara out of this!”
“Oh, you’re making demands.” Allison dropped the photo. “I’ll kill her just like I
killed that whore wife of yours.” Perry got up slowly. He held his hands up and walked
around his desk toward her. “I didn’t tell you to move, did I?” Allison snapped. “Maybe I
should kill you then kill myself. We would be together then,” Allison held the gun inches
from Perry’s chest.
“Wait. Wait.” Perry pleaded. “You don’t want to do that. I can still make things
right,” Perry softened his tone. “What do you want me to do?” She didn’t answer.
“Would you at least look at me, please?” He begged. “Just look at me.”
Perry was so damn charming. It was overwhelming. When he wanted
something, she could never say no to him. And those piercing blue eyes--if I looked into
his eyes, I would lose all of my resolve. Focus. Focus. The memory of handcuffs and

7

The Best Laid Plans

a jail cell rekindled her fury. “What do I want from you? You bastard,” she screamed.
“You told me you loved me…that you wanted to be with me.” She put both hands on the
gun to steady it. “Remember that! Remember?”

She took a deep breath, “I did things

for you --things that could get you in trouble.”
“What are you talking about?” Perry asked, backing away from her.
“You know. I know you know. I can’t believe I was so stupid,” she said crying.
“What are you talking about Allison?”
She wiped away the tears. “I loved you. You told me you loved me too. I
would’ve done anything for you.” She sighed, “I killed for you and where did that get
me?”
“You’re right,” he finally said. “And I’m sorry.” He heard the police sirens in the
distance. “I do love you, Allison. I’m sorry I lied at your trial. I’m sorry I denied our love
and denied I wanted you to be my wife.” He paused and moved toward her. “Can you
forgive me?” Perry waited for Allison to respond. When she didn’t answer, Perry knew
it was working. He went on, “I just couldn’t let them know... I couldn’t let Sara know I
didn’t love her mother anymore. I still want you,” Perry said softly, moving closer to
Allison. He reached out and caressed her cheek. “That is, if you’ll still have me,” Perry
said as he lifted Allison’s chin and kissed her gently on the lips. The barrel of the gun
pressed against his chest. Perry knew he was taking a chance, but he had to.

8

The Best Laid Plans

Allison had longed for his touch, but quickly stepped back. She steadied the gun.
She didn’t know what to believe. Does he really love me or was he lying… just using
me again. She wanted to believe him. The last few months had been so hard without
him.
“Come here.” He held out his arms as he moved toward her. I promise I’ll protect
you—I’ll tell them that it was all my fault. Just give me the gun.”
“You won’t let them send me back to that place, will you?” Allison lowered the
gun. “It’s a horrible place Perry,” she said, relieved she wouldn’t have to go back.
“I know. I know it is. And I won’t let them take you. I’ll explain… I’ll protect you
this time,” he reassured her. Allison fell into Perry’s arms still holding the gun. He held
her and caressed her hair. He wanted her to feel loved. He pulled away slightly and
kissed her then pulled her against his chest. He heard the police banging on the front
door. They would be in there any moment and this would all be over.
“I am not going to let them take you back. I promise,” he whispered to her as he
felt for the gun in her hand. He heard the door being kicked in, and then men yelling
“Police. Police.”

And a single shot echoed in the room.

“Mr. Grayson! Mr. Grayson, where are you?” The police called as they searched
the house.
“Mr. Grayson!” Perry recognized Detective Williams’ voice.
“In here Detective,” Perry called, “I’m in the study.”

The Best Laid Plans

9

Detective Williams and two other officers rushed into the study. Perry was
standing over Allison with the gun in his hand. Allison lay on the floor--a blood stain
spread across the front of the lavender and white dress. Detective Williams walked
over to Perry. “Mr. Grayson, give me the gun.”
“Uh?” Perry looked at him puzzled.
“The gun,” the detective said again.
Perry looked down at his hand that held out the gun. “I didn’t mean to do it. We
were struggling and the gun went off. She made me kiss her and tell her I loved
her…How she could think...” Perry broke down.
“It’s okay Mr. Grayson. Allison Craig was a poor, unstable woman. Her imaginary
romance with you wasn’t your fault,” Detective Williams said, as he bent down and
checked Allison. “She gone,” he said as he stood up. He shook his head then ran his
hand over his balding head . “We never thought she’d carry out her threats to kill you.
We tried to find her…I should have called sooner. I thought we’d find her first.” The
detective surveyed the scene and saw the broken picture nearby on the floor. “Just go
with this officer and he’ll take your statement. She broke in and tried to kill you. Right?
Your statement is just a formality.” Perry stood there unable to move. “Help him to the
other room and take his statement,” Detective Williams said to a patrol officer and tag
this.” He handed the officer the gun.
“Oh Mr. Grayson one more thing,” the Detective said.

The Best Laid Plans

10

“Did Allison have the gun when she confronted you?”
“Yes, she did.”
“You have a gun don’t you?”
“Yeah, I do. Allison—she had it. She used it to confront me,” Perry sighed. “I
usually keep it in a lock box in the bedroom closet. But I—I brought it down to clean it
last night. It was in my desk drawer. If I had only--” his voice broke.
“Thank you, Mr. Grayson.” Detective Williams said. Perry nodded and then
followed the officer to the kitchen to give his statement. Detective Williams turned back
and looked down at Allison; he could have sworn she was smiling.
Perry wasn’t allowed to stay at the house. It was a crime scene once again. He
had to spend the night at a hotel while Sara stayed at her friend’s house. No need for
her world to be turned upside down again. On his way to the Marriot, he turned on the
cell phone and pressed Send. The phone rang a couple of times; Cheryl answered, “I
didn’t think I’d hear from you tonight.”
“It’s over. She’s dead. Meet me at the Marriot in an hour,” he said and hung up.
Perry checked into the hotel and took a long, hot shower. It had been an unbelievable
day. He ordered dinner, had a drink from the mini bar and waited. His cell phone rang.
“I’m in 602 at the end of the hall.” A few minutes later, there was a soft knock on the
door; he rushed to open it. He smiled and asked. “What took you so long?”

The Best Laid Plans

11

Cheryl admired Perry as he stood in the doorway of the hotel room. He was
sporting that charismatic smile. That smile and those gorgeous blue eyes--with them, he
could convince you to do anything. Glad I saved the emails he had me send--my
insurance policy. She flashed her own charming smile as she entered the room, “I was
just being careful that no one saw me. That’s all.” She opened her coat and revealed
her new lacy teddy. “It would be a shame if all of this planning was for naught,” Cheryl
kissed him then pulled him down onto the bed…
Detective Williams had had a long day. The ordeal with Allison Craig was finally
over. Now, his lieutenant would never know that Grayson’s administrative assistant was
his sister, Cheryl. Cheryl was so worried about the Graysons and begged him to stay
on the case even though it was against protocol. Everyday Allison was alive—the shit
could have hit the fan, but now it was done. All of their secrets were safe.
Detective Williams made one stop before he went home. He wanted to get a
card for Cheryl. Once in the store, it didn’t take him long to find it. He paid for it and left
the store. In his car, he pulled the card out and signed it. It read, Congratulations on
the front with multi-colored confetti. On the inside it read, All your dreams and wishes
have come true.


