I had gotten used to the life of being spoiled. My father
and I were very wealthy and intended on being so for a long
time. I had many people in my life that mattered much to me,
such as the cook, the maid and my father of course. The only
person I longed to have was my mother. But there was one
thing that filled that space.
We waited very long, my father and I that is, for a package
my father ordered. It suspiciously had no arrival date which
made the coming of it quite odd. It was wrapped in brown
paper and a large box with large words saying, FRAGILE! When
it was opened my eyes grew larger than they ever have before.
That was the best day we ever had in 1937. It was a painting.
And in the painting was a beautiful lady, she looked like the sun
and the moon and the stars in one package of beautiful
gracefulness. My father hung it in the grand hall for all to
admire.
Whenever we had people over they all mentioned the lady
in the painting, and how beautiful she was, how she would
make them smile. When anyone passed by her they smiled and
everything became a little more cheery.
Until one night I was in my bedchamber when I heard
something stirring down the hall. My eyes opened and I

crossed the hall and saw my father cursing with anger, but
when he turned to me all that I saw was sadness in his eyes.
Fathers industries had been shut down, and every last
penny we had was taken away. We were worth nothing and
now owned nothing. We could no longer live in our nice large
house and everything in it was taken away, including the lady in
the painting.
Now my father and I live among the streets of 1938,
France. The wrong time to have to roam the streets scavenging
for food with Germans around scavenging for Jews like us.
My father and I huddled in a dark corner and my head
nested on his comforting shoulder. I started to weep. “Sshhh”
my father hushed me “it’s going to be alright, Margaret, the
lady in the painting will help us and everything will be alright.”
Just then I saw two tall men in dark suits and frowns, the last
thing I remember were two big hands coming at me, then there
was darkness.

When my eyes opened all I saw was dark. Had I died? Was
this what it was like when you were dead? Then I heard a voice
which made me jump. Then more voices. There was bumping
and rustling all around, we must be in a van, I thought. It was
filled with lots of people and the air was so musty you could
hardly breathe. All around me, I saw dirty faces with tear stains
praying, and calling for help. I scanned around for father. Then

I saw him and shouted with my loudest voice. I scooted my
way over to him and he cradled me in his arms. Then the van
doors opened. The full moon light streamed in and two men
started forcefully pulling us out. I clung on to my father’s warm
shoulder as hard and tight as I could. Yet we were pulled apart.
It was then I thought I’d never see my father again.

My fingers were red from the firm grips of the German
soldiers. And I was sopping wet with rain and mud dripping
down my torn and tattered clothing. I called for my father, but
the German soldier dragging me by my fingertips through the
cold and wet, screamed at me to be quiet, then barked
something at more soldiers in a language I didn’t understand.
The man grabbed me by the hand and threw me into some sort
of camp then with a crash closed a spiky metal gate.
I was surrounded by other girls and women separated
from their families and husbands. It was like a cloud of misery
enclosed by a sharp metal gate.
That night you could hear piercing cries from outside. It
was the sound of death right in my presence. Many girls in the
bunk room wept. And one got dragged away by a Nazi. Crying
and screaming for mercy. I only thought about my father, my
soft caring father, and just then I knew I was going to make it
through this.

The ladies job was digging. We dug holes, doubtless for
the ones we heard screaming outside the night before.
One night while I was digging a hole somewhere among
the back of the camp a heard a ladies voice whispering.
“It is ok Margaret, I am here Margaret, and everything will
be alright.”
It was the lady in the painting. My eyes welled with tears,
then my face grew red with anger. I knew what I had to do.
Backing up I ran at the gate with everything my tuff
thirteen year old self could do. My hands and feet starting to
climb the old sharp metal gate. The broken wire stabbed into
the skin and blood poured out. I let out a short ear piercing
screech, loud enough for the whole camp to hear. I squeezed
my hand into a tight fist and ran on. Through the depths of the
dark forest scratches came all over me and my whole body
started breaking down. A sickness had come over me the past
three years, and death had become my enemy. At the edge of
the forest I just could not run anymore. My arms were
breaking, I was sick and covered in blood the color of a dead
rose. No, I had to make it. My body forced itself up and I kept
running. Until I saw it. My old home was in ashes. Except one
wall, a wall that once was in the great hall of our great home.
And on that wall was the lady in the painting. I ran to her, that
moment I knew, that was not just any lady that was my mother.
I breathed deeply, and that moment I smiled for the first time
in three years since I entered that nasty camp. I leaned up

against the painting, and the lady, my mother took me in her
arms and whispered,
“Its ok Margaret, you are free now”
And I smiled, my head fell back and I closed my eyes for
the very last time.


