Travis Ramos moved like a snake through the crowded, dirty streets. The
temperature had reached ninety-two and a toxic, burning smell was a gift from the


day’s heat. Travis had sold all his vials, given the money to his dealer, and still didn’t
have a penny to his name. Every cent went to the loan he’d taken.
He thought about the confrontation from last week. There were no grey
areas in his business. It would have to be settled—kill or be killed. Travis cut across
the avenue and entered Central Park. The park was a good place to get lost. He cut
off the path and climbed onto the rocks. Travis got low and navigated the undulating
boulders. Most people had no idea he was there. Climbing made him feel like a
mountain lion ready to pounce.
He walked toward the illuminated fountain. Vibrant red and blue lights lit up
the area. The fountain was circular with a walking path around it. The gentle waves
of Central Park Lake framed the tranquil location. Travis ran his hand through the
tepid water of the fountain and began collecting. Over the years he’d only been
stopped once by a cop. People noticed but none said a word. Travis made the first
round and pocketed the dimes, nickels, and quarters. It was nearing August so the
fountain was full of change. He made two more trips around the fountain and
headed back to the rocks.
Travis felt a stare and turned to one of the paths that entered into the
fountain. A man and woman were looking at him and shaking their heads. His
muscular body puffed up and his eyes shot out daggers. The couple quickly took off.
He’d long ago lost the ability to feel humbled. When you were hungry, you found a
way to eat. No questions asked. His pockets jingled all the way to McDonalds.
Travis felt exhausted from the walking and the feast at Mickey D’s so he
decided to take the elevator up to the apartment. It felt like being in a coffin. A


puddle in the corner stank like urine and the elevator hiccupped and shook as it
ascended to the seventh floor. Travis had to jump up to get out because the elevator
landed below the floor. The light on the floor faded in and out—one second you’d
have murky light and the next darkness. Pungent odors of rice and meat fogged up
the area.
He struggled getting the key into the old lock. The door creaked open. His
mother sat bathed in the glow of the television. The ever-present wine and bottles of
pills were close by. A Spanish soap opera blared throughout the apartment. She
didn’t acknowledge his presence. He went to his room and shut the door. Travis’s
bedroom overlooked the courtyard and avenue. Shouts reverberated between his
building and the one across from the yard. A small fan swooshed around the odors
of unwashed sheets and mildew.
Travis reached under his bed and pulled out his old jelly jar. He went through
his pockets and put the left over change in the jar. Some of the coins had stuck
together from the humidity and wetness. This haul had gotten him twenty-six
dollars and forty-one cents.
He stripped off his clothes and a coin rolled toward the window. Travis got
on the floor, smashed a roach with his palm and found a quarter near the closet. The
fighting in the courtyard escalated into screaming. He went to his bed and rolled the
quarter between his fingers. The shadows of cars from the street ran along the
walls. Every night he dreamed of shootings and stabbings. Maybe tonight would be
different. Travis closed his eyes holding the quarter tightly. Sleep came soon.

4
Travis leaned into the heavy boxes of liquid soap. Someone had stolen the
dolly, and he was told that it would be a few days before they got another. His
fingers ached and his scrapped knuckles throbbed and bled. As he continued
stocking, thoughts of college flew through his head. It had been three years since
he’d gotten out of high school. He always remembered the words of his counselor.
“Look, Travis, I know you’ve had difficulties in your life. I contacted St. Johns
University. They have a solid computer science program. You have the grades and
ability to do well.”
Where would I get the money? Besides no one had ever gone to college from
his family. Travis kicked at a box and wiped sweat from his brow. He’d leave this job
in a minute if it wasn’t for the insurance. He had Type 1 diabetes and needed
medicine.
“Hey, Travis, we have a clean-up on aisle six. Someone spilled a jar of sauce.
Can you do it for me? Ricky’s sick.”
His manager, Ted, stood on the balls of his feet. The overhead lights bounced
off his baldhead. He chewed gum at a ferocious rate. Ted played with his wedding
band. When Ted hired a pretty employee he’d take it off.
Travis sighed and made a big show of flexing his bleeding hand. “You think I
can get a little more time on my lunch today. I have to get my medicine.”
Ted stared and spit his gum into the garbage. “No can do. If I give you more
time then I gotta give it to everyone. Take care of that for me.”

5
Travis watched him walk away. Freaking jerk. Travis got the mop and bucket.
Last week he had to clean up the bathroom. They were using him for the worst jobs.
And he was letting them get away with it.
Red sauce splattered the floor like some crazed artwork. A mother and her
young son walked through the sauce and trailed it down the aisle. She gave him a
dirty look to boot. Travis felt rage pierce him. Nobody respected him. Tonight he’d
get the respect he deserved.
Some of the sauce had gotten under the racks and Travis got low. His mop hit
against something and he paused. He bent down and saw a purse wedged under the
pasta. Travis checked both ways, grabbed the purse, and took off for the stockroom.
The bathroom was empty, and he slid in.
The purse was black with brown fringes. It opened and the sides folded out.
Credit cards filled the inside. There was a card for almost every store in the area—
Target, K-Mart, BJ’s, Walmart…it went on and on. Travis found three twenties and a
ten. He pocketed the money. If he got caught with the purse his job would be gone in
a flash. Where could he throw it out?
Travis went to close the purse when he got a glimpse of the driver’s license.
He pulled it out. She was a little older than him, twenty-three. Blond hair cascaded
across her forehead and covered one eye. A tight smile played along her face. Travis
saw a kindred spirit in her doll like eye. They were empty of life with sadness piled
into them. Eyes that had seen what life had to offer and had given a resolute
answer—I give up.

6
Travis hesitated but felt his hand reach into his pocket. He put the money
back in the purse and left the bathroom. Ted was on the phone and put his hand up
when Travis entered. The room felt like a box. Ted’s desk was huge and took up half
of the space. A computer sat next to it. Some pictures of his family were on the table.
The walls behind him held data sheets evaluating how the store was doing. Ted
finished his conversation.
“What do you want?”
Travis saw the impatience on Ted’s face. He hadn’t always done the right
thing. Travis handed the purse to Ted. “I found it when I was cleaning the aisle.”
Ted opened it making a show of counting the money. After a moment he
sneered, “How much did you take?”

Travis’s real job started as families shut their doors and settled into
television time. He weaved through the streets and fingered the gun in his pocket.
Some dealers from the east side had dared to come on his turf. If he didn’t clean this
up he’d be done dealing in the streets.
Rolling clouds blocked a three-quarter moon. Humidity hovered and clung to
him. He headed toward a darkened alley. A graffiti filled door stood near a
dumpster. Travis took out a bread knife and jimmied open the old door.
A wave of hot air hit him. He winded his way around pipes and machines and
went to the service elevator. Travis went to the tenth floor and walked up another
flight of steps to the roof. A sign stating If you open this door an alarm will sound was
above the roof door. Travis knew it was bogus and opened it

7
Another world enveloped him. Lights from nearby buildings sparkled with
intensity. Travis went to the edge of the roof and stared down at the images—
houses, cars, and parks that appeared miniature. In the distance he could make out
the Empire State Building. He greedily sucked in a fresh smelling breeze.
Travis walked to the other side of the roof, took out miniature binoculars and
scanned the streets. Nothing was brewing yet but it was only a matter of time. He sat
and shut his eyes. Before long he was dreaming.

8

The Quarter

Bits of broken glass filled his soaring mind. It flew around him like blowing
snow. They joined together and he knew immediately what it formed—the Plexiglas

9
that always surrounded his father in jail. Travis watched as his mother screamed at his
father for always making the wrong choices. He stared through the glass and wished
he could touch his dad.
Thunder shook the night but Travis continued to dream. An eight-year-old
Travis pedaled through the crowded streets of Manhattan. He flew through the area
barely missing people and getting flattened by a car. Snow pounded the avenue.
Travis stared at two men screaming at a group of people across the street. Guns got
drawn and bullets flew. Paulie was just getting out of the car as shots were fired.
Travis yelled at his brother to duck. Paulie stood up and a bullet slammed into his
chest. Snowflakes melted into a river of blood. Travis moved closer to his brother. His
outstretched arms lay against the snow resembling a bloody snow angel.
Raindrops woke him. He rubbed at the tears in his eyes and wished the pain
in his heart would disappear. The sky had been blanketed by massive, dark clouds.
He felt himself gripping something in his left hand. Travis opened his hand and saw
the quarter. He must have pulled it out of his pocket when he was sleeping. He’d
never done anything like that before. He’d been acting strangely lately—giving the
wallet and money back and just now dreaming about his dad and brother. He never
thought about them. It was too hard.
Travis examined the quarter—the front had the standard George Washington
image but the back was different. It had a picture of New Mexico from 1912. It was
called Land of Enchantment. He yawned and got up. Travis checked his phone and
was surprised that he slept over an hour.

10
He got out his binoculars and scoped the area. The streets were empty.
Lightning flashed across the sky followed by distant rumbling. Fat drops of rain
splattered against the roof. He stared at the coin again. His grandmother would
know what it is.
Travis looked toward the street. He was torn between finding out what he
had in his hand and defending his turf. More lightning tore through the sky. The hell
with it. Travis decided to take care of the situation on the block later. A cold, heavy
rain pounded the roof. Travis headed home.

Travis found a seat on the IRT down town train to the Bronx. A metallic,
bitter smell filled the train car. Most of the train riders dreamed of going to the
Caribbean vacations plastered all over the train. Travis remembered these trips as a
kid. Long days, ties that strangled his neck, and the creepy feeling he always got
going to his grandmother’s house.
Grandma Celina’s house was called Casa De Santos, the house of saints. She
could heal any sickness or solve any problem. The train screeched through dark,
tight tunnels. Hot, sticky, smelly air came from the open windows. His mother would
pray and beg for her husband to come back from jail. That was one thing Celina
could never do.
She did solve other dilemmas though. Their cousin Hector had been
homeless and had tried to commit suicide. His life changed after meeting with
Celina. He got a job and eventually got married. His cousin Cindy had the beginnings

11
of breast cancer when she went to Celina. A week later any signs of it were gone.
Celina had succeeded far more than failed.
Travis navigated the crowded streets to Celina’s apartment. A group of
teenagers huddled near a corner eyed him like a tiger would size up its prey. Travis
kept his hand in his pocket matching their glare. After a few tense moments they
looked away. Predators knew predators.
Travis took the stairs to the ninth floor apartment. The elevator was broken
again. He caught his breath before he knocked on the apartment. His uncle Luis
came to the door quickly. It had been a long while since he laid eyes on Luis. It
looked like Luis had shrunk. His head looked miniature like when the tribes in the
Amazon would shrink them. Luis’s arms and legs looked rail thin in cheap, torn
jeans and stained t-shirt. There were pizza boxes and wrappers on the coffee table.
The rug had debris all over. Dishes and pots were piled in the sink. None of this
bothered Celina—she was totally blind and stayed in her room most of the time.
Travis hugged Luis and felt his bones and weakness. They spoke of the family
and life for a few moments. Luis put his finger to his mouth and pointed toward the
kitchen.
“She has been very upset for the last few days.” Though Luis spoke fluent
English it was still heavily accented. “She was calling your name before you called.”
Travis listened intently and noticed that the quarter had appeared in his
hand again. As Luis went on Travis thought he heard his name being spoken. Luis
stopped and they both stared at the door. Luis grabbed the hand with the quarter.
“She is ready for you.”

12
Travis looked at the door and turned back to Luis. He felt the same fear he
had as a child but this time he didn’t have his mother’s hand to soothe him. This time
he was alone.
He opened the door and heard chanting playing softly from a small radio in
the corner. Flickering candle lights danced along the blank walls providing the only
light. A long table by the window held potions and books she used to heal. Two
wooden chairs were on either side of her bed. A small fan circulated incense and
filled the room with the cloying scent of sandalwood. He remembered it from his
childhood visits.
Celina was sitting up with her arms extended toward him. Her gray hair
looked like straw and her open mouth showed few teeth. Celina’s eyes were milky.
She reminded him of Luis in her frailty. Her nightgown looked a few sizes too large
and fluttered from the fan’s breeze. She resembled a ghost.
Travis never got over the resemblance of Celina to his father. His dad’s face
was etched along the contours of his grandmother’s profile. He’d heard when his
dad got sent to jail for murder, Celina withdrew into this room. Travis leaned into
her arms. Her hug felt comforting. The quarter felt like hot coal in his hand.
She explored his face with her hands. Celina kissed him and he sank into the
chair.
“Why are you crying, hijo?”
Her voice was low and soothing. Travis wiped away tears, and had no
explanation. The music behind him was mesmerizing. She touched his left hand.

13
“Our family has been haunted. It is not for me to come to you but you to me if
you want to be healed. Is this why you are here?”
Travis had wanted to change and be the better person his brother knew he
could. Something had happened when he found this quarter. His dreams weren’t
filled with violence and going back to school seemed like a possibility now.
“Yes.”
Celina opened his hand. The quarter looked as though it was pulsating. Celina
took it and squeezed. For a moment nothing happened. Then the candles went out
and the room buzzed with an energy force. Celina moaned and Travis screamed
when she grabbed his hand. He felt the quarter pushing out heat between them.
Then he heard…
A deep hum came from large machines behind a bed. Beeps filled the area.
Ventilators seemed to be sucking the air out of the room. Travis saw a man hovered
over the bed. A wave of sorrow hit him when he saw the young girl. Her baldhead
made her eyes look large and doe like. Tubes were crisscrossed across her bony
frame. Flowers and family pictures surrounded her. A picture of her dog lay on her
sunken chest.
The man turned and Travis met the man’s hollow gaze. Large, dark bags
ballooned under his eyes. His features appeared frozen into a frown. The man’s
shoulders slumped. The girl’s sickness had taken permanent residence in him.
“Genevieve is on life support. She’s going to be eight in,” the man slowly
checked his watch. “Twenty-two hours and thirteen minutes.” He gently touched
her face. “I don’t think she’s going to make it.”

14
Travis felt like an intruder. Why was he here?
“She looks like her mother. My wife can’t bear to be here. I sit here and watch
her leave us and wonder what she might have become—veterinarian, teacher,
doctor. Last year she found three stray, starving kittens. She nursed each one back
to health.” He kissed her head and both cheeks. “Such a beautiful heart. Maybe she
could have impacted the world in a good way. I don’t know if I can go on without
her.”
The man pressed his cheek against his daughter’s. Travis saw tears streaming
from the man’s face. The man got up and walked to within inches of Travis.
“You stole my wish.”
Travis expected the man to attack. He would never forget what happened
next. The man hugged him and spoke in Travis’s ear.
“I hated everyone when this started. Now…” The man took a deep breath.
“I’m not mad anymore. You took my wish. What are you going to do with it?”

A wave of dizziness hit him hard. The final words spoken by the man rattled
through his mind. He felt a hand caress his cheek. Travis opened his eyes feeling
nauseous and disoriented.
Celina touched Travis’s hand. “Every coin you stole had a wish. What are you
going to do?”
Travis opened his hand and stared at the quarter. “I want to be better. But…”
Celina nodded. “It’s very hard to change. I know. Do you remember what
your brother would always say to you?”

15
Travis had tried but could never remember the words. “No.”
Celina sat up. “He said you were the hope of this family. You were the
salvation.”
Travis slid into her arms.

16

Ten Years Gone

17

“Where’s mommy?”
Travis put the milk away and smiled at his daughter. She had taken after his
side of the family—dark and curly hair with coal black eyes. He scooped her in his
arms and danced around the kitchen.
“Mommy will be home soon, mi amor.”
He gave her a big hug and she skipped out. Travis felt his heart melt. Having
Julianna was the greatest gift in the world. He walked to the door and stared outside
to his vast backyard. Huge oaks and apple trees surrounded their property. The
Cherry Trees were starting to blossom. Honeysuckle lent the air a perfumed
fragrance.
Travis went into the business office and turned off his Air Mac. No more
transactions for the day. He swore that nothing would ever be more important than
his family.
Travis walked to the fireplace and looked at pictures of Luis and Celina. They
had passed away five years ago within days of each other. He touched the picture
frames. Without them he’d still be on the streets—or dead. His mother had also
found salvation. The loan he’d taken to help with the cancer treatment had saved
her. He thought of the years in school after seeing Celina. His move to Long Island to
get away from the gangs. His mother waking from the fog of pills and alcohol to
support him. So much had gone right after that night.

18
Sun beat through the windows. A sea breeze filled the room. Travis heard
Julianna’s footsteps down the hall. He checked his watch. It was uncanny how she
always came at the same time.
She came holding a circular silver box. Crisscrossing patterns of swords
covered the front and back. Engraved on its front was the word Aeternus. It meant
forever. Travis went to a couch facing lush trees. Julianna sat next to him and gave
him the box. They held hands and Julianna spoke.
“Eternal rest, grant unto her O Lord and let perpetual light shine upon her. May
she rest in peace. May her soul and the souls of all the faithful departed, through the
mercy of God, rest in peace.”
He kissed her cheek and opened the box. The quarter never failed to amaze him.
Sometimes it would glow with brilliant colors. More importantly it represented salvation
from a miserable life. Travis had told his wife and daughter of the miracle of this quarter.
How important it was to honor Genevieve.
Travis closed his eyes and felt the warmth of the sun’s rays. His daughter nestled
into his arms. He was at peace.
“Where were we, mi amor?”

19


