As  I  sat  in  the  pine  boroughs  with  my  old  filthy  black  lab  who  had  a  bone  spur  in  his  
spine  next  to  the  beaver  pond  I  felt  a  pull  on  my  brain.    You  know  the  one.  That  
familiar  tug,  up  and  to  the  left.    Gentle  as  though  nothing  is  there  but  you  know  that  
if  you  resist  your  brain  will  be  ripped  from  every  fiber  holding  it  in  place  and  spin  
circles  inside  your  skull.      
  
A  roll  in  the  dirt,  a  glorious  wandering  field  of  yellow  mountain  spring  
flowers,  a  call  from  Texas  in  the  bag  under  the  picnic  table.    I  was  crossing  what  was  
left  of  a  glacier  that  covered  the  river.    One  wrong  foot  and  here  I  am  knee  deep  in  a  
stream  with  nowhere  to  go  but  up  into  this  cavern  of  ice  and  dirt  and  roots.    I  pulled  
back  the  roots.    Opening  the  door  to  the  world.  
  
I  passed  through  and  found  myself  in  a  near  empty  room.    Walls  had  that  
color,  the  white  of  an  aged  once  sterile  hospital.    In  the  center  was  a  man  in  dark  
faded  blue  jeans  and  black  shoes.    Shirtless.  Bald.    He  had  his  back  to  me.  Slightly  
hunched  forward.    His  right  arm  frantically  pulsating  back  ad  forth.    And  that  sound.  
That  sound.    As  if  I  were  spending  yet  another  night  in  a  boys  wilderness  program.    I  
entered  the  room  and  closed  the  door  behind  me.    I  circled  the  man.  Trying  to  walk  
silently  on  that  white  ceramic  tile.  Circling.  Swish.  Swish.  Swish.  Circling.    A  young  
man  with  no  cares  about  the  outside  world.    Circling.  Swish.  Swish.  Swish.  Circle  
those  black  shoes  and  baldhead.    Noticing  while  not  noticing  the  deep  red  pool  
growing  between  the  man’s  feet.    I  circled  father  and  found  the  man  focused  on  
himself  but  not  in  the  way  I  thought.    Fingernails  and  skin.  Chunks  and  flakes.  An  
indefatigably  relentless  obsession  with  the  ever-­‐widening  hole  in  his  wrist.  
  
I  soon  realized  the  man  scratching  whole  through  his  arm  was  none  other  
than  a  former  me.    What  was  I  doing?  What  am  I  doing?    
  
Scratching.  Scratching,  Scratching.  Goddammit!  Will  it  ever  end?  HE,  I,  
Worked  with  an  unparalleled  intensity  which  left  all  else  nonexistent.    He  scratched  
and  picked  at  himself.    The  dripping,  the  picking,  the  work  of  his  fingers  in  that  
sloppy  hole.    The  sound.    Unbearable  to  all  those  unfortunate  enough  to  observe.  
  
  
Silence.  
  
  
All  motion,  all  sound  finished.    He  slowly  peered  around  the  room  still  
oblivious  to  me  and  focused  his  attention  on  the  desk  in  the  corner  for  what  seemed  
like  a  lifetime.  
  
Violently  he  broke  his  gaze  and  returned  to  the  perforation  below  his  hand  
and  gently  held  his  lacerated  vein  between  two  fingers.    He  started  to  pull.    I  
clenched  my  teeth  and  watched.    He  pulled  harder.    The  skin  started  to  tear.  As  it  
split  the  vein  pulled  through  as  does  a  wire  through  the  sheetrock.    A  distinct  
meandering  line  of  pain  and  suffering  broke  through  his  skin  and  left  a  void  of  waste  
and  destruction.    He  held  the  blue  tube,  now,  like  a  string  attached  to  his  inner  
elbow.    On  his  face,  amusement,  confusion.    
  
He  held  out  the  raw  battered  end  of  that  vein  to  me  as  our  eyes  connected.  He  
looked  myself  in  the  eye,  and  there  I  saw  it.  What  I  don’t  know.  But  I  know  now  that  
I  had  moved  beyond  death.    With  no  words  I  dived  head  first,  like  a  cock  into  a  cunt,  

which  had  not  received  adequate  attention,  into  this  wormhole  of  myself.    Pushing  
and  squirming  with  no  progress.    Until  that  moment.    That  moment  when  one  is  
accepted,  invited,  encouraged  to  enter.    And  down  I  went.    As  I  traveled  this  tunnel  
between  I  and  I  the  hail  started  to  fall.    It  grew  and  grew  and  intensified.    Though  no  
pain  was  felt  for  this  hail  had  previously  been  cross  sectioned  and  seen  in  that  
remarkable  way  that  only  cross  polarized  lenses  can  see.    And  as  if  I  were  inside  a  
glass  dome  this  exquisitely  colorful  precipitation  stuck  just  out  of  reach  on  all  sides  
forming  a  swirling  womb  whose  colors  were  divided  by  the  femurs  and  ulnas  of  
those  lost.  
  
I  emerged  out  of  the  tunnel  to  catch  the  green  flash  of  sunset  reversing  into  
that  beautiful  red  half  dome  that  can  only  be  seen  in  a  world  to  polluted  to  survive.    
Out  of  this  dome  grew  a  mushroom  decaying  the  world  back  into  itself.    I  watched  
the  split  second  life  span  of  this  fungus  from  maturity  to  reproduction  and  as  it  
withered  into  the  nothingness  of  a  man’s  ear  I  realized  that  I  was  now  behind  
myself.  Able  to  step  back  into  the  body  I  left  behind  as  it  stepped  into  the  pond  
where  I  am  standing  now.  
  
Now  we  depart.  Back  toward  home  after  yet  another  Sunday  mass.  


