June hated fine dining more than anything under the sun. She found it tedious how many
pieces of silverware one had to use and how miniscule the portions were. Her lover, Todd, knew
this and yet there they were at one of Scottsdale’s snootiest eateries chowing down on
obnoxiously delicious fillet mignon and savory lobster tail. Todd knew her like a veterinarian
knows euthenasia, but he was mistaken in thinking that taking her to a place like this would
convince her of whatever he wanted to convince her of. Yes, Todd only took her to fancy dinners
when he was up to another scheme that he wants her to be his accomplice in.
“You only have to do it once.” He shrugged, shoveling a sunset colored piece of lobster
tail into his mouth.
“I’m telling you,” June started, exasperated already, “It wouldn’t work! He’s beyond the
pale already—I can tell by how he calls you a ‘cuck’ every two seconds.”
“In this case, I really would be one though, wouldn’t I?” He chuckled irksomely.
He realized that maybe now was not the time for joking with June and, like the strategist
he is, switched tactics.
“Listen,” He started, “I know it would be affirming his mindset even if it does work, but
this is more than just stopping him from being annoying, June. This is stopping something much
worse from happening.”
June reclined in her eggshell colored silk-draped seat and sighed dramatically, really
performing her annoyance with her partner. She even lazily rolled her wide-set eyes
counter-clockwise. Usually, she gives less of a peeved song-and-dance when it comes to his
mischief and sometimes, she agreed to them without hesitation or theatrics. This instance,

however, sparkled with fresh fuckery and June was not having it. The subject of this discussion
was one whom June couldn’t stomach, even with the most expensive cuisine in her belly.
This subject was none other than—
“Charlie?” June whined.
“Yes, Charlie.”
Charlie Duncan was the singular, sniveling incarnation of everything June despised about
the human race and especially men. He also happened to be Todd’s best friend since the second
grade.
It’s always the second grade isn’t it? When people get attached to their humanoid
albatrosses they call “best-friends”?
June briefly wondered for a moment if she thought this because she did not have a best
friend, but she digressed. She leaned over the table, gazing at Todd’s serpent-green eyes and
smiled seductively, like how a venus flytrap would. He leaned over with her conspiratorially,
never breaking eye contact.
“I’m not sleeping with Charlie, no matter what is in it for me.” She whispered.
It was now Todd’s turn to lean back in his chair, except he smirked like he had the
winning hand. The restaurant was bustling for such an intimate venue so it was clear no one had
heard her. The purple velvet walls soaked up all their conversation with their fuzzy fibers. Todd
finished his last, gravy covered bite of fillet mignon then lifted his cloth napkin to his plush lips
and dabbed them in a princely fashion. June mirrored him by leaning back herself, giving him an
expression that says she means nothing but business.
“What if…” Todd trailed off, neatly folding up his napkin. June leaned in ever so slightly
to listen.

3
“Yes?” She inquired, using her hand to execute a “go on” gesture.
Todd’s wolfish teeth gleamed even in the dim lighting as he let out a sly smile.
“What if,” he began again, “You’d get to kill him if it doesn’t work?”
June let in a sharp intake of breath. She clutched the brittle stem of the wine glass with
the maximum strength a pastel pink pedicure could permit. The mustachioed waiter even shot
her a nervous glance as she white-knuckled the likely priceless glass. She felt her rapid heartbeat
in her hand—no, throughout her whole person. A tingle accompanied this pulse like the sickest
of symphonies and her hazel eyes became as wide as symbols. Todd yet again had sussed out one
of her deepest desires.
“Don’t you care about your best friend at all?” She finally asked, lifting the glittering
glass of rosé to her lightly pursed lips.
“Don’t worry about what I care about.” Todd said a little too brusquely.
“Oh?” June replied after finishing her fizzy gulp, the pink wine tickling her gullet. “I
would think that what you care about would be something that concerns me.”
He chuckled at her and placed his imposing mit of a hand on top of hers.
“You are what I care about the most, but my feelings about this are none of your
concern.” He then took a deep, pensive sip of his pinot noir.
June wanted to press further but knew that wouldn’t work with Todd. Besides, every time
she wanted to figure something out, she always would in due time. Now was not that time and
June accepted that. Plus, she was flattered that he said she was what he cared the most about.
That was the correct answer.
“Fine...” She agreed.
“So you’ll do it?”

4
“Perhaps I will…” It was now her turn to dab her lips that became slightly pinker tinged.
Todd grinned and squeezed the dainty, tapered-fingered hand underneath his, rubbing his
thumb along the side of it. June didn’t enjoy many things in life, but this gesture was one of the
few exceptions. She returned the grin, showing glinting rows of childlike teeth then reverted to a
more serious countenance, as if the next thing she was about to say was the loftiest of
imperatives.
“I will do it,” She slid her hand out from underneath and then placed it on top of his, “but
we are doing this…my way.”
She squeezed his hand, coiling her fingers around his palm and wrist like mini boa
constrictors. He looked up at her with a glint of intrigue or fear in his eyes. June relished this
look, whatever it was, and then released him to chug down the last few sips of the finest rosé she
had ever tasted, which somehow in that moment, happened to taste even sweeter.
*

*

*

The cup of thai ice tea with boba sweated in June’s hand as she waited outside Charlie’s
door. Her nerves were already frayed and she hadn’t even stepped through the threshold yet. She
was already done with this before it even started. Being around Charlie, to June, was like sitting
in piss soaked jeans: irritating, repulsive, and possibly rash inducing. The only thing that kept her
slender legs rooted to the concrete stoop was that she would never have to deal with him again
after this. Neither would anyone else, for that matter.
The crimson wood door creaked open and June slapped on the fakest smile she could
muster. To her surprise, on the other side of the doorway was his mother. Well, to clarify, she
wasn’t surprised that he still lived with his mother but that she was implausibly hot. She cursed

5
Todd for never mentioning this detail to her but was relieved that she didn’t need to fake her
smile anymore.
“Hello!” She uttered in her most saccharine tone, “Is Charlie here?”
His mom gave her a puzzled but wildly delighted look.
“Yes, of course he’s downstairs! Can I help you with something?” She replied eagerly.
“Yeah! I just need Charlie to help me with my computer. It’s on the fritz right now. I
brought his favorite drink for him as payment!” June displayed the tangelo colored boba drink
proudly and his mother appeared to be sold by every last bit of it. Even if she wasn’t, she gave a
look that said “Finally a girl comes to see my son!” which meant she’d probably let June in no
matter what she said.
“Well, come on in! I’ll call him up from the basement.” She took a graceful step to the
side and allowed June to walk right through. She took some time to admire the average decor
that comes with an upper-middle class house. All of the “Live. Laugh. Love” signs greeted her
with their toxic optimism. Yet, she knew she was in safe hands and wouldn’t be bothered.
“You have a lovely home!” June gushed. She also mentally reminded herself to kill
whoever the bastard was that invented chevron print.
“Thank you so much, you are very kind! Ignore the mess, by the way,” There was no
visible mess besides a pair of dirty, chunky Skechers next to the front-room couch, “Someone
just doesn’t know how to pick up after himself!” She said this in a sing-song voice loud enough
for (presumably) Charlie to hear. Then she tsk-tsked when he didn’t answer, placing an
exasperated hand on her shapely hip.
“Don’t worry, mom, I’m coming!” Charlie barked back, annoyed.

6
“There’s a girl here to see you!” She called back, giving June a winning smile that June
returned in an obviously false manner. Well, obvious to June.
Charlie came bounding up the stairs, sounding as clunky as shoes in a washing machine.
Due to his lankiness, his large head preceded the rest of his elongated body. He then stopped
abruptly at the top of the white-carpted stairs, barefoot and gangly. He gave June a perplexed and
spooked look, like he was looking at a mountain lion in the wild. June rebutted this look with a
closed mouth smile. Her cheeks were beginning to hurt like hell from this charade.
“Hey June,” he said tentatively, “What brings you to my place?”
Now, Charlie doesn’t look like his mother who is basically Xena the Warrior Princess
herself. Apparently, he looks like his dead uncle (overdose) whom Todd has only seen in
pictures. He claimed that Joey (Charlie’s uncle) was a man with a wonky sort of handsomeness
that didn’t completely arrest you the first time you see him, but the ladies fell for it in droves.
Charlie did not have that same appeal. Where Joey had charm, Charlie had the opposite which is
something that he got from his father who hid in his office all day.
“I was wondering if you could help me with my computer, Charlie?”
She held out the boba for him to see, dangling it like a carrot in front of a horse.
He looked at her skeptically but then focused his beady-eyed attention on the enticing
drink in her manicured hand.
“Is that thai iced tea with boba?”
“It’s yours if you want it!” June shook around the cup, the ice making a noise meant to
hypnotize.
He paused for a bit, still appearing confused but then shook his head, apparently shaking
away what looked to be suspicion.

7
“Go on ahead to the basement. I’ll get you something to drink and then we’ll check out
what the problem is.”
He snatched the drink away from her hand and took eager sips out of that bulbous straw
as he sauntered awkwardly towards the kitchen. June then looked expectantly to his mother who
pointed her towards the opening from which Charlie came.
“The mess in there is going to be astronomical, by the way. I apologize in advance!” She
called after June who was heading toward the basement.
“Don’t worry,” June called back, “I have three brothers!”
June did not have three brothers.
His mom gave her a hearty chuckle that only mothers seem to make and then headed
toward the kitchen herself, likely to give her son a rapturous lecture about how to behave in front
of women that would more than likely fall on deaf ears. June giggled to herself at the thought of
it, then stopped at the precipice of the basement where the plush white tunneled down into utter
darkness. It was like the passageway to incel hell, the white door at the end being its infernal
gate.
Jesus Christ, does he wear night goggles down there?
She found the lightswitch on the left basement wall, then began her descent. She made
her way past the door onto older, dingier carpet that seemed to be cleaned NEVER (his parents
probably gave up on it due to Charlie’s slobbishness) and noticed modest furnishing with an old
couch, an even older TV set, but a state of the art PC setup with double monitors and a rainbow
light-up keyboard. Below her bare feet she could feel the needling of old Dorito crumbs. Every
cell within her body wanted to eat itself alive and then shit itself out, but the poison in her pocket
that Todd gave her was the only thing powering her through. It was her mitochondria, if you will.

8
June finished scanning her surroundings then realized that she actually didn’t care that
much about this filthy basement. She padded over to the couch and then took a reluctant seat on
it, smelling ancient odors waft up as she sank into its dusty cushions. Her allergies suddenly
flared up and she crinkled her nose trying to prevent a sneeze. To her chagrin, the sneeze escaped
with an incredibly adorable achoo!
“Bless you.” She heard from directly behind her.
She yelped then jumped up and turned around abruptly. Charlie was right behind her
holding a wine glass full of a carbonated, mucus colored liquid.
That’s it. I’m gonna kill you regardless.
“You scared me, Charlie!” She admonished him.
“Sorry about that…” He replied sheepishly.
“It’s okay…”
June patted the seat beside her and Charlie looked like she just offered him a rattlesnake
to chew on. Despite this, he sat down right beside her, the same odor puffing up as her plopped
down on the cushions, and gave her the wine glass.
“Here. This is just Mountain Dew in a wine glass. I know you like wine, but my mom
drank it all so I thought I’d get a little creative. If you squint your eyes, maybe it looks like
champagne!” He let out an anxious chortle then stopped abruptly, realizing that what he said
might not be all that funny.
“Thank you…” June said, breaking the awkward tension, then taking a pathetic sip of
Mountain Dew from the glass. Luckily, Mountain Dew was one of the few things she actually
liked. She would never tell anyone that of course.
“So,” he began, cocking his head, “What’s the problem with the computer?”

9
“Well…” She wondered if she should continue with this computer angle or cut right to
the chase. She came prepared, after all. She had downloaded something from a sketchy porn site
and now there are pop-ups galore on her laptop. Milfs in her area are apparently actively
searching for her, isn’t that grand?
If only it was Charlie’s mom…
“You see, I sort of went on an...adult website and now my computer has some sort of
virus or something.”
Maybe the pictures will awaken something in him and make this easy on me. I’d hate to
waste my seduction skills on him…
Charlie’s face turned immediately into tomato soup after she said that. If he wore glasses,
they would probably be as foggy as one of those fake haunted houses.
Maybe he won’t even need to look at my computer…
He opened the laptop as if it was a snake charmer’s basket and the pop-ups in there were
just ready to strike. As the bright screen flicked on, images of several intricate (possibly illegal?)
sex acts and middle-aged naked women peppered the screen. He was blushing furiously.
“Well,” he coughed out, “This will actually be an easy fix. You can just leave this with
me and I should have it back to you by more than likely, tomorrow.”
June knew what this meant: he was signaling to her that he wanted to work on this alone.
This simply could not do. She must come up with a way to remain here. She must pull some sort
of conversation topic right out of her ass…
“What do you think of these women, Charlie?” She pointed towards one of the pop-ups.
He gave her a wild look. One that indicated the gaze of a trapped Tasmanian devil.
“Come again?”

10
“What’s your opinion on these women in the pop-ups?”
“No, I know what you asked but, why?”
“I’m just curious about your viewpoint.”
He looked like he was on the verge of shaking.
“I don’t have an opinion on them.” He finally said after a sizable gulp.
June realized she needed to switch tactics. This line of questioning clearly wasn’t
working.
“How about on sex workers in general?” She inquired, cocking up one eyebrow.
“I don’t want to answer that…” He stated, nearly yelping.
“Why, Charlie? I thought you loved a good debate.”
“Well, yes but―”
“But, what?”
“But,” He appeared flustered at this point, almost as if he was about to shatter into a
trillion pieces, “I don’t want to talk about this with someone like you!”
June could barely contain the smile she was holding back because of his pathetic
squirming,
He is nearly there! Any moment now he will descend into a tirade and I will have my go
ahead…
“What do you mean someone like me?” She put the rest of what she said in air quotes.
“I mean―” He got up and ran his fingers through his greasy, shoulder-length ginger hair.
June crossed her legs and folded her hands together on the end of her knee, signaling to
him that she is listening.
“I’m listening!”

11
“I mean a certified goddess like yourself! I mean the epitome of a Stacy, down to the
honey blonde hair and everything, who is dating the exact replica of a Chad who just so happens
to be my best friend!”
He inhaled deeply, his eyes twice their size. He shoved his hands into his pockets then
slouched, projecting a dejected calmness.
“I mean, I can’t talk to someone like you about what I think because you wouldn’t
understand it. You wouldn’t understand that women on that computer are just like women like
you looking for either money or looks, or both! While men like me have to just sit here and
watch.”
There went the tirade…
June got up from the couch and sauntered over to him, leaving just inches of space. Her
statuesque frame still didn’t reach the height of his.
“Bullshit.” She said emphatically, poking her finger into his bony chest.
He stepped backwards slightly, wincing from the poke and rubbing his chest, but she
immediately filled the space he left.
“It’s the horrific truth!” He yelped, nearly spitting on her.
“Nope!” She quipped, “It’s bullshit. Your whole philosophy, Charlie, is bullshit.”
He was now backed up against the desk of his computer setup. His hands white-knlucked
the edge but he still didn’t break eye contact with June, who was staring directly into the cavity
in his chest where a soul should be. She too had this cavity.
Reel him in, June!
“You don’t get women like me, Charlie, because women like me find your entitlement
absolutely repulsive. Trust me on this.”

12
“But that’s the way it is! Women are for men!”
“Oh Charlie,” June said condescendingly, “How can I possibly change this horrendously
backwards idea of yours?”
“You can’t!” He squeaked.
“Charlie,” she strengthened the hold of their eye contact, “I want you to sleep with me.”
He gasped like he was underwater for hours and just came up for air. Needless, to say
June felt like she was drowning as well, her only buoy being the imminent end of his life. She
looked at him expectantly, giving him an expression that was meant to convey something
resembling tenderness.
“You don’t have to,” she whispered, running her fingers up his arm gently, “But I’d like
you to…”
His breath hitched from the touches and then within seconds, he launched himself at her
and then latched on with a very chapped-lipped kiss. Even June had the wind knocked out of her
from such a sudden advance, then he abruptly pulled away, resting his hands on her shoulders.
“Of course I’ll do it.” He replied with a gracious tone. “Men like me are born to worship
women like you.”
*

*

*

The whole affair (mind the pun) lasted about three minutes and some change. Luckily,
June was counting on and even hoping for a short session. He ended up telling her after the fact
that she was now in possession of his virginity in which she pretended to act shocked. She also
threw her clothes on again the moment she could. June didn’t want Charlie to have another
second with her naked body.
I should be winning a fucking Oscar for this.

13
When all was said and done, she abruptly straddled his waist and held his hands above
his head. He gave her a smirk as if he was saying “round two?”, but she scowled at him and then
tightened her grip on his hands, digging her pink nails in slightly.
“Now,” she said with a slight growl, “Do you still believe in your bullshit philosophy?”
Charlie looked slightly afraid but something in his eyes told June he was emboldened in
some way. “Somehow, you actually made me believe in it more…”
In a way, this was the answer June was expecting and possibly hoping for. Yet, she felt
like jumping into a vat of acid. She had told Todd it wouldn’t work and yet there she was, just
having done his bidding. She gritted her teeth and coiled her hands around his wrists even more,
hoping to cut off the circulation.
“Where is the manifesto?” She hissed.
There was a pensive pause.
“I’m not telling you.” He asserted.
She dug her nails in even more, not enough to break the skin but enough to make him
wince.
“You have one more chance to tell me where it is and delete it.”
“Or what?” He spat at her.
“Or I’ll wipe you off the face of the planet, that’s what!”
Then, he gave a look that said he was about to shout. June knew it was her time to strike
so once he opened his mouth she hastily poured the poison into it then clamped it shut with her
hand. He wriggled around like a worm on a hook and flopped like a fish underneath her weight.
However, June was heavier and stronger than she looked so she was able to hold him down while
the light behind his shark-like eyes slowly faded. It was the only time that night that June came

14
close to completion. Charlie finally slackened and June removed her hand from his mouth which
luckily, wasn’t covered in any foam or blood. Todd was right about this poison leaving no trace.
She made a mental note to reward him for that the next time she sees him. Her triumph then
dulled to a sickening silence. She could now hear only her own breath. She also realized that she
was still on him and could not feel the rise and fall of life within him. Her fancy dinner from last
night began to come up but she swallowed it down and reassured herself that she must continue
with the objective. More important lives are at stake.
She dismounted Charlie then walked over to his computer to find the manifesto for
herself. She was hoping he was lazy and just put the file into some porn folder and not behind
firewalls. After some clicking around, she did find lots of porn, but still no manifesto. She even
rifled through his Word documents to see if it was on there. She also tried to look through a
thumb drive he left on the desk next to the keyboard. No dice.
At the rate June was looking, the basement would almost be torn apart. But she was
through and put everything back where she found it but there was still no physical copy of the
manifesto. Todd said he had already searched his room before and it wasn’t in there so it had to
be on the computer.
Oh duh, June! It’s probably in Google Docs!
June admonished herself for not going with the obvious choice right from the bat. She
returned to the surprisingly soft computer chair and then clicked on the only thing that was open
on his computer: his Chrome browser. There in the first tab open was a Doc of the manifesto,
splayed out in all its ungrammatical glory. She deleted every trace of it she could find. She even
went into his Drive and deleted it there.

15
She then went to see if somehow he had downloaded it and then deleted it. Checking his
recycle bin, to her dismay, was a Word doc copy of the manifesto. Her heart dropped into her
stomach and drowned in the acid. Her eyes peeled away from the horrific site and then she went
over to the next tab that she previously ignored because she expected it to be open already: this
tab was 4chan. The manifesto had been posted to an incel message board and there were already
several comments on it.
June tore through the comments at an obsessive rate. All of the commenters agreed.
Many of the commenters spewed some of their own views. Some of the commenters discussed
horrific violent acts that even made June sick to her stomach. She then glanced over at Charlie’s
stiff corpse splayed out on the dingy couch. She felt an intense amount of pity that threatened to
creep out from her pores then curl around her throat. It wasn’t pity for Charlie, no she couldn’t
feel sorry for him even if she tried. This pity was for herself and herself alone. A sickening
thought then danced across her brain. Well, sickening to June. This thought was that maybe he
could have been handsome and pleasant if there was someone there to poison him every day.
June then got up out of the chair and shut his eyelids with her fingers.
Goodnight, Charlie…
She then walked out the basement door and shut it behind her. June walked up the stairs
as if it was her own funeral procession and then tried to slip out the front door. She heard his
mom call from the kitchen, “I hope he fixed your computer!”
The TV was blaring something from the kitchen that June could barely make out. She
decided she didn’t care because she was assured now that his mom didn’t hear Charlie yell.
She looked over her shoulder then grinned.
“He did that and then some!”

16
She didn’t hear his mother’s reply, but knew it was something along the lines of a
friendly goodbye. Then she passed through the door, shutting it and leaving the events from the
past couple of hours behind her. Now, all she could think about was how ravenous she had
become despite the unspeakable sickness she felt. Walking back toward her car, she exhaled and
then hummed along with the faint police sirens in the distance. Within 24 hours, she will be
captured then arrested. But will she give a damn? Most certainly not.
*

*

*

June loved diners more than anything under the moon and stars. She found it comforting
how one could be a regular customer for years and yet still remain anonymous. The waitresses
are nosy, yes, but they never ask questions that they wouldn’t want the answer to. They asked her
if she was meeting somebody and she simply replied, “Yes.”, but it was clear that they wanted
further information so she added, “My boyfriend is joining me.” It was a very simple interaction
all around and June appreciated nothing more than interacting simply with simple people.
Todd slid into the maraschino colored booth in front of her. He was not very punctual
today, seeing that June was already munching on her french fries and had already devoured her
club sandwich. She shot him a look that read as a judgement of his obvious lateness. He returned
the look back. He knew June didn’t care if he was late or not.
“So did it work?” He asked in an annoyingly cautious way.
“Nope.” She answered, taking a puny bite out of her french fry.
“So...you did it?”
“Yep.” She said, popping the “p”.
Todd folded his hands together in worry and then looked down at them, almost as if he
would open them again and therein would lay a better answer. Todd then glanced back up at

17
June, with tears welling in the corners of his eyes. June dropped her fry onto her plate. The
ketchup lightly splattered off the plate and onto her other hand, blood red. This was not part of
their deal. He didn’t get to feel this way.
But before she could lay into him, the previously silent television set was turned up and
started blaring a news bulletin:
Tragedy strikes the university where a lone gunman murdered five sorority sisters and
injured three. The gunman is in custody now. We will be hearing about the motives later today
after some extensive police questioning....
Todd gaped in horror at the TV and then looked back at June. He allowed one of his tears
to fall. June, however, did not shed a single tear. Instead, she wiped the ketchup off her left hand
with her right thumb and then smeared it onto his face, tracing the wet trail that the tear left. She
then placed the thumb into her mouth, licking it clean of any residue.


