“Yes, it does make sense.” I said to myself. All my life, I’ve been pushed. Pushed by
Mama, by my brother Terf, pushed to do things I did not want to do and to be places I did not
want to be. Every single action or desire of mine belonged to someone or something else. Nope.
Not the best feeling in the world. The only thing that was mine and mine alone was my
spectacular memory, my unique ability to remember anything and everything. I found out about
it when I didn’t forget about that pain when everyone told me that I would. I broke my leg when
I was five, and Mama told me to stop crying because I will grow up and forget all about it, but I
didn’t. I didn’t even forget “some” about it, yet alone all about it. It stuck with me till this very
day, to this second that I’m reminiscing and talking to you. So when the pain didn’t vanish, the
memories stayed and the pictures stuck, I discovered my extraordinary talent of being a haunted
person.
I remember a lot of things, I remember every single day of my life. I remember sitting on
our wooden floor on the day I was born. You may think that this is impossible and no one would
ever be able to remember such a thing. But I do. That is actually the very first thing I remember:
how I was pushed out of the dark into the light, on my granny’s old green blanket full of holes.
Dusty and rusty lying in some kind of a liquid. I remember the first time I saw Mama. She
looked like – Mama. She was looking at me with her mysterious face, she always has this Iknow-things-that-you-don’t-know look on her face. You will never find out what goes on in her
mind. Try asking and you will regret it for the rest of your life. She always said “Curiosity killed
the cat,” whenever we asked her something we were not supposed to ask. Although she was
smiling, I couldn’t tell whether she was happy to see me or indifferent. Well, that’s Mama. She
smiled at me and told me: “You are hungry.” I wasn’t. She didn’t care. She never asked a


question to know the answer. It was like her little chit-chat. Before I could cry my first cry ever,
she pushed some food in my mouth. I remember crying afterward, and I remember sitting on our
hardwood floor playing with my brother Terf. It feels like years since the last time I saw Terf. I
miss Terf. Terf is good. Not the smartest pal around, but good. He is strong and chubby. Or was.
He could easily go anywhere he desired in a few minutes, jump so swiftly and even climb things.
If you think his chubbiness affected him, you’re wrong. He was just so fast and delicate, he was
“quick as a cat.” None of us have seen an actual cat in our entire life. We just know it’s an
animal. But we have heard Mama say it a thousand times: “Quick as a cat!” She never told us
whether she had seen a real cat or not. Or how it looked. Or how she knew a cat is quick. Well,
that’s Mama. Anyway, my cat-like good brother Terf was playing while eating this one day, or
any other day for that matter; you see, that’s one thing I knew Terf for. Besides him being good,
Terf had an appetite. He was always chewing, nibbling or biting on something. Anything eatable
in our house would be eaten by Terf in a few minutes. He would never stop. Now that I think of
it, I’ve never seen him without some food or a drink by his side. And that’s why he was Mama’s
favorite. It sounds weird, doesn’t it? “My mom loved my brother more because he ate more.”
Mama never treated us badly or differently, but once. But that’s another story. But I always had
this feeling that he likes Terf and Ly way more than me. In case I forgot to mention, Ly is my
sister. I liked her better than Terf because she minded her own business. She wouldn’t wander
around figuring me out. She wasn’t as good, but she was smart. I miss Ly too. But I miss Terf
more and I don’t know why. Ly didn’t eat as much as Terf did, but she always finished her meal.
So Mama would favor her as well. Mama weirdly cared way too much about us finishing our
meal. Not only she cared, but it was also a holy thing for her. The more we ate and enjoyed, the
happier she was. As simple as that. Well not as simple, she had this motto “A strong future is in a

3

The Cat

strong body” and then she would mention that the strong body comes from the food she puts on
the table every day and night. She took it personally if one of us wouldn’t finish his dish. And of
course, that one of us was always me. I am the “one of us”. That’s why she liked Terf and Ly.
They finished their dish, ate their meal and Terf would eat mine too. Me, I was never a big fan of
eating. I simply do not enjoy it. I never really become hungry. I have no desire for eating and
food for me mostly is another way to stay alive, just enough to survive. Even after playing with
Terf in the garden and coming back home sweaty and exhausted, even after waking up in the
morning after a dinner-less night beforehand, I was not hungry and that made my Mama real
angry and even hurt. I ate to survive but that wasn’t enough for Mama. Mama wanted, no,
needed to see us getting all nourished. Mama needed snacks and big fancy dishes full of rich
food vanishing in a couple of seconds, and I couldn’t deliver. I could mostly at my best moods
poke around and eat half of the amount that made Mama raise an eyebrow, and have one snack a
day, and the rest of my portion was for Terf. If he could reach it before Mama appeared. If not, I
would have left it out for the cat; if it ever decides to visit. And I remember Mama chasing me
around the house with a spoonful of “something”, really didn’t matter what to me, pushing me to
take another bite.
I remember sitting on our hardwood floor playing with my brother Terf and convincing
him to eat the rest of my afternoon snack. It was a fruit or something. It really doesn’t matter.
“You know you aren’t full.” I said with a voice full of despise, because he was being a baby. “Of
course I’m not. Unlike you!” He said you with a mocking tone and threw a piece of wood at me.
“But Mama is going to kill me dead. Don’t you remember?!” I knew he was right. Mama had no
sense of pardon when it came to food. Everyone should eat her (Mama always used the pronoun
her) portion and eat it whole. One time she found out about Terf eating the rest of my snack, and

4

The Cat

he had no dinner that night. For Terf this was the highest of punishments. For me, it was a prize.
“But Mama would never find out! She is not even home and she won’t be back till late! Common
don’t be a scaredy-cat!” I said with a convincing tone. My tone was too convincing perhaps. I
feel bad now. Did cats scare easily? I don’t know. It was Mama’s saying and I asked her once.
She said: “Eat your food and you’ll find out.” I ate the whole dish that night just to find out the
answer to my question. Mama never answered any question, so I was eager, but as you may
guess, she never gave an answer. Yes, that’s Mama. I still don’t know. “Stop making that face
already! I ate it, no need to show that stupid face.” Terf brought me out of the cat memories back
to real life. While I was thinking about Mama and her cat quotes, Terf had eaten the rest of my
portion. Relieved and well- a bit grateful, I nodded and went to the window to look out. I heard
Terf saying behind me: “You owe me one.” He couldn’t let me be happy for his existence for a
second. As I said, I've been pushed all my life. To finish my food by any means, to owe my
brother for his favors and now this.
You know what else I remember? I remember how that night Mama didn’t come back.
And no, that was so not Mama. We waited and waited and waited some more but she didn’t
return. Ly was a shy girl and the least emotional of us all, but she started crying the morning
after and she wouldn’t stop. Her sound was driving me crazy and I was wondering what had
happened to Mama. Where had she gone?! Was she hurt? Or even dead? Had she abandoned us
because I was so stubborn and reluctant? Was she gone to see the cat? So many stupid questions
were swirling around in my head. And the crying, the torturous crying. The unbelievably not-assubtle-as-a-Ly-crying-must-sound crying. Ly wouldn’t stop. I tried to comfort her many times,
but I gave up. I tried to give her some of her favorite food, but she refused. And now even Terf
couldn’t eat anymore. Terf could not eat. I knew things were going horribly down the hill when

The Cat

5

Terf stopped eating. I had to do something. Where was Mama?? Terf sat down all sad and quiet
in the corner of the room and stayed silent. I tried to talk to him several times. I even tried to feed
him a little. I don’t know why. For Mama’s sake maybe. I knew this would have made her
happy. Her children full and nourished. I stopped. I couldn’t care anymore. What good came out
of all that crazy obsession of eating? Nothing. So I couldn’t care anymore. Mama should have
thought about that when she decided to leave us behind. I knew inside my heart that Mama didn’t
really leave us with her own choice, but I was frustrated. I was all alone, I was hurt, and I was
pushed, pushed and forced to take care of my siblings. Why wasn’t I losing my mind? Why was I
still sane enough to think? I wished to lose it that second. To not to be able to think anymore, to
care anymore. So it would stop. So the horrible pain would stop. But it doesn’t work that way
and you know it… You don’t make a decision not to care and not to feel. You just don’t.
I was staring out of the window, far away into the meadow that my house was placed
upon when I realized something had changed. At first, I couldn’t even tell what it was. And then
I thought I had gone deaf. Because I couldn’t hear anything. But then I found out that the crying
had stopped. It had been going on so long and so intense that for some brief moment I thought it
was the only sound in the world. But it wasn’t. The wind was there, and the sound of leaves
falling, and the ants walking on the wooden floor, and Terf’s breathing, but the crying was gone.
Ly had stopped. She said something in Terf’s ear and then sat beside him. How many days had
gone by? I asked myself right at that moment. I couldn’t tell. She didn’t say anything after that
whisper in Terf’s ear, and she just sat there, right beside Terf, with the same position, hugging
her knees. At least she was crying before that, at least she was doing something. Now I just had
two corpses to take care of. Mornings passed, and nights too. Or maybe I thought they did. I lost
the track of time and forgot the meaning of day and night. On a special day, which we will call

6

The Cat

the day Ly got up because I have no clue what day it was, Ly got up. She got up and walked
outside. I didn’t follow after her, there was no point. If she wanted to hug her knees outside, it
wouldn’t have made any difference. Hugging your knees inside, hugging your knees outside,
hugging your knees in the doorway, no difference. It’s the knees and the hug that matters. So one
day Ly stood up, walked to the door and went out. And I glanced at Terf. He was all alone now,
sitting motionless in silence. “I don’t want him to die alone.” I said to myself because I was
pretty sure he was going to die. And I was going to die, and so was Ly. There were no food left,
no water and even if it was, they wouldn’t eat or drink. I would die the last, I thought. “I don’t
want my brother to die alone” So I walked to him, sat beside him and then I turned into him.
I was supposed to be the different one, the one that holds it together. But it turns out I
was no different after all. I sat there and didn’t move. I sat there and didn’t talk. And I stopped
looking out of the window. It didn’t matter because even if I looked I couldn’t see. Because that
was when the walls came. Out of nowhere, built by some invisible person or some invisible legs
belonging to an invisible person. Like magic, they were there, and I was stuck. Now I can’t see
out of the window, I can’t see Terf and I am not dead. All I can do is to think of the horrible
things happening to me, tell you about it, and stare at the walls. The horrifying walls. The white
horrible terrifying walls.
So yes, it does make sense. I’ve been pushed all my life. By my mom, by Terf, by Ly, by
myself and now by these stupid white walls. They keep coming closer and closer. And my space
keeps getting smaller and smaller. They separated me from Terf. First, they were thin like a
warm blanket. First I could see through them, and I could see the change of the day and the
night. And eventually, they got thicker and thicker until I couldn’t see Terf anymore. I can’t see
the sun, passing the meadow and coming through our window, spreading on the old green rug. I

The Cat

7

miss Terf so much. At first, I tried shouting out his name. But there was no answer. I once called
Ly. She never came. Now everywhere is dark and soft. I know my walls are white because I saw
them when they were thin, but there is no light coming in so it’s pure darkness here. Nobody
should ever experience such darkness. I’m telling you. It’s like I am blind. And I can’t even tell,
maybe I really am. I’m being pushed again. It’s getting smaller and smaller here day by day. I
may be even upside down. I don’t even know. And I don’t even care. I just remember
everything. And I don’t want to. I really, really don’t want to. If this is death, then Mama lied
about granny going to a better place. This isn’t even a place. Let alone being a better one. “Yes,
that’s Mama.”
“ARE YOU IN THERE?” I know this voice, I’ve heard its annoying ringing all my life. It is
Terf’s. Ok. Great. Just what I needed. Now I hallucinate too in addition to remembering stuff. I
don’t want to die crazy. “COME OUT-Hey!” I hear a bump on the walls surrounding me, in
addition to the voice. And now I know it’s not a dream or a product of my crazy brain. Because
the walls are shaking, and I’m pretty sure I don’t have that active an imagination. Something, or
perhaps, someone is hitting the wall hard. The light burst is making me almost blind and the
crack causing the light to come in gets wide open. And there stands Terf. Or who I think might
be Terf. What in the world is happening? “I can’t believe it! You had one too!” said Terf. I
carefully come out. I’m wobbling and it’s really hard to stand, I feel kinda heavy on my feet but
I’m alive. I missed this voice. I missed the unnecessary excitement in his voice. And the
annoying ring he had in his voice. And I missed him. But that wasn’t Terf. Looked nothing like
Terf. Terf was chubby and-and weird looking, and- annoying looking. But the person standing
right in front of me, the person I know with no doubt is Terf, is beautiful. He is- nope, he just
looks beautiful. I looked around and saw the soft cotton trapping me and Terf. “Why are you so

8

The Cat

beautiful?” I asked him deep in thoughts. What a childish question. Also an inappropriate one.
You can’t go around asking people why they are beautiful! At least it’s better than asking
someone why they are not beautiful. Terf started laughing, opened his wings and went out of the
window. Suddenly I heard his shout and flew after him. He was looking at some shattered walls.
The same walls we were trapped in. And Ly was lying in the middle of that mess prettier than
ever. It was like somebody had torn apart her walls and torn her apart as well. Her wings were
broken and she wasn’t breathing. Terf flew away and covered his big sad eyes. But I just
couldn’t stop looking at her. She looked peaceful and- flawless. A feeling told me she stepped
outside the last day of our old life for a reason. Terf came back and placed our granny’s old
blanket that was now orange on Ly’s body without a word. “All that time in that cave, I thought“
“You were awake?”
“Yeah, I was just thinking.”
“About what?!” Terf said that with utter astonishment.
“Ugh- nothing.”
“Damn right! That hell hole! I just fell asleep. Do you think Mama knew about all this?”
“Duh! Of course- no-no. She couldn’t have. Mama never said a thing. Perhaps she didn’t know.
Yes, that’s Mama.” I said with the most convincing voice I had.
And that my friend, was a lie. Now I’m getting higher and higher up from the ground,
leaving Terf behind and I’m flapping my wings to stay in my place. Do not ask how I learned to
flap my wings. I started examining a bunch of flowers near the fence that separated the meadow
from our land. Suddenly, I saw something I’ve never seen before. An animal perhaps… A black
thing with a fluffy- well probably skin and two white pointed figure and four figures I could

The Cat

9

assume them only as legs. Just four!? How weird… It was napping under the sun. The weird
thing saw a sudden movement in the bushes a meter away and jumped fast and quickly with its
furry legs and body on the fence. The jump was a familiar one. Just like how Terf used to climb
everywhere we went. I flew towards it, he (or maybe she) saw me and ran away quickly. Today
is the day that, I, Bu, the butterfly, met Scaredy, the cat.


