To tell the truth, I was sadder when we put Daphne down than when my wife finally died
several weeks later. My wife knew her death was drawing closer, a looming certainty. She knew
there was no going back. Onward to the grave was her only option, her only escape from the
cage of sickness and loss her life had become. She was ready, and she even had some hope for
what lies beyond.
But how do you explain suffering and death to a cat? A cat you’ve loved and cared for
since she was a starving stray kitten? You can’t. You just watch the needle go in and the lights
go out and you say “Sorry, girl,” while the vet tries to tell you there’s nothing to be sorry about.
So now it was just Carlo and me. Carlo, Daphne’s “big brother.” I could tell he missed
her too. Where Daphne had been shaggy, ginger, and playful, Carlo was smooth and calm and
gray, but they’d been great friends.
Before the cancer knocked her down, my wife had been working on a replacement for
Daphne. She’d been feeding a little neighborhood stray she called Midnight, trying to make
friends with her. After my wife died, I kept setting Midnight’s food out on the front porch. Petite
and sleek and pitch black, she watched from a distance with suspicious green eyes. Only when I
was safely back in the house would she dash for her kibble.
Day by day, little by little, I’d been making progress. Midnight waited a little closer,
came to her food a little sooner. Carlo watched from the picture window, slow-twitching his tail.


I imagine he wanted to meet Midnight, too, but he wasn’t saying. As Midnight grew to trust me,
I felt closer to my departed wife. I was finishing the job she started.
Then Midnight vanished. She’d disappeared before, shying away from any extra activity
around the house. Like when the tree guys cleared the dead limbs from the black ash in the front
yard, or the carpet cleaners snaked their howling hoses from their truck in through the front door.
This time, I figured it was the movers that ran her off.
With just Carlo and me, the house had grown too big and empty. And it was expensive to
maintain. I found a small condo a mile away that would take all three of us: Carlo, me, and—I’d
hoped—Midnight.
But I suppose the movers were too much for Midnight, as they tramped in and out
through the propped-open door, wheeling stacks of boxes out to the van. Some of the boxes went
to the new condo with me and Carlo, and some to a storage unit I’d rented until I could figure out
what to do with a lifetime of excess stuff, most of it my wife’s.
So we moved without Midnight. But I kept her supplies handy: her food and water bowls
with the kitty silhouettes, and the soft rubber mat she’d crouched on while she ate. I don’t know
what I was thinking. Maybe that some instinct would lead her to my new doorstep—something
corny like that. Sure, or maybe it would be my wife’s spirit that leads Midnight to me and Carlo
as a final goodbye from the great beyond.
Right.
Of course Midnight did not show up. I put fresh food out on my new porch for a couple
of days, and Carlo sat in the window and watched, but the food remained untouched. I rolled up
the rubber mat and tossed the bowls under the sink.
I closed the blinds.

Death Be Not a Pussy / Page 3

Carlo and I watched a lot of TV in the dark. I slept when I got sleepy, ate when I got
hungry, and kept the blinds down.
Daphne was gone. My wife was gone. Midnight was gone.
But of course the story does not end here.
###
Three days later, I got a call just before lunch from the young guy at the storage place. He
said his name was Eric, and he needed me to bring my key. In the last two days, a couple of
customers had reported hearing sounds possibly coming from my unit, bumps and scratching,
which he had, well, ignored. But this morning, when he made his early rounds, he heard
something himself. Like a baby crying, almost. He thinks some kind of animal might be in there.
A raccoon or a possum. Maybe a couple of birds.
Or a cat.
I took Carlo with me.
The kid—Eric—was carrying a net, like a butterfly net. I opened the padlock and slipped
it from the hasp.
Eric slid the door up, and held the net at arm’s length.
The noonday sun didn’t penetrate the gloom of the unit’s interior. Nothing moved. Then
we heard a mewling. Weak.
Carlo jumped from my arms and ran straight to a dark corner. He vocalized something
short and sharp.
“Your cat better be careful,” Eric said. “Could be a wild animal.” He raised his butterfly
net a little higher. “With rabies!”
“He’ll be all right.”

Death Be Not a Pussy / Page 4

Midnight stepped out of the shadows, her head low, her left eye nearly closed, her tongue
showing between her teeth.
Carlo strolled back to me with his tail straight up and, after a pause, Midnight followed,
her shoulder blades rolling under her fur.
When I picked her up, she closed her eyes.
“Damn. How long’s she been in here without food or water?”
“Too long,” I said.
We locked up the unit, and Carlo and I took Midnight home.
###
I found a cage for Midnight and padded it with an old blanket. I laid her down inside and
latched the door so she couldn’t run off and hide, even if she found the strength. Then I opened
the blinds. Midnight had barely survived living in the dark. It was time to let the light in.
I called the vet’s office and they agreed to get me in right away, so I left Carlo at home
and loaded the cage into the car.
The vet examined her and wanted to keep her overnight for intravenous hydration, so I
left her and went up front to finish the paperwork.
The receptionist asked, “What’s your cat’s name?”
“Midni—” I said. “No. Scratch that.” Midnight is the heart of darkness. I was finished
with darkness for a while.
“Her name is . . . her name is Gwen,” I said. I decided to call her Gwen.
It was my wife’s name. I realized I hadn’t spoken her name since she died.
Gwen.
I turned and walked away before the receptionist could see me crying.


