Sometimes the earrings catch on her clothes as she undresses. Sometimes they work
themselves out over the course of hours and slip soundlessly onto her shoulder or a
carpeted floor.
She wears only the dangly kinds with curves of wire that slide into the tiny
perforations in her earlobes. The losses aren’t frequent. But by the time Hilary’s sixtieth
birthday approaches, her jewelry box—though perhaps that’s too generous a term for the
wooden container that once held exotic tea—is home to a sizeable collection of mateless
earrings.

Hilary was sixteen when she and Tanya Shoenberg took the T into Boston one spring
afternoon. They walked into a hole-in-the-wall place at the edge of the Combat Zone
where the owner would pierce your ears for the price of a pair of earrings. He looked
them up and down. He probably thought they were prostitutes, notwithstanding their
ordinary suburban clothes, because why else would a couple of teenage girls be down on
this part of Washington Street? This was 1974, the year the Combat Zone received its
official designation as Boston’s adult entertainment district.
The piercer was almost as old as Hilary’s dad. His hair hung past his shoulders and a
peace sign flashed at the open neck of his shirt. They had nothing to fear from him,
Hilary thought, although she also thought maybe they were being a little naïve.
Somehow she had been elected to go first. Her palms began to sweat when the guy
came out with the piercing gun. That’s what he called it. Then he added, It’s better than
The Bureau of Lost Earrings

the needle. Cleaner, nicer alignment. You’ll be happy, you’ll see. Just leave the starter
studs in for six weeks so the holes won’t close up.
He said all this while swabbing Hilary’s lobes with alcohol and marking the spots
with a pen.
Okay now, the man said, just hold still.
There was the shock of the pop and the pinch and it was over.
The only set of studs Hilary ever owned was that starter set. As soon as she took
them out she went to the Chestnut Hill Mall and bought herself a pair of silver teardrops
with a fake green gem glistening in the ovate center of each drop.

She lost and found one of the teardrops twice before losing it for good in the sheets
of Johnson Perkins III’s bed. He was her first serious boyfriend and he shared the
bottom floor of a house in the Back Bay with three other B.U. students. Hilary was a high
school senior spending every weekend with her college boyfriend. There wasn’t a thing
her parents wanted to do about it. They had their own messes: a marriage on the rocks
and a thirteen-year-old boy who was nothing but trouble. They were happy to believe
Hilary’s stories about study groups at Tanya’s and Sunday afternoon research sessions at
the public library.
She loved Johnson, who was called J.J. because Johnson was too pussy of a name,
and he loved her. At least that’s what it felt like when he burrowed under his blood-red
satin sheets and ate her out or took her to The Rat to hear Third Rail or sat with his arm
around her on the gross couch in the living room while his roommates sucked on a bong
shaped like a naked woman. It felt like he loved her right up until his graduation when,
instead of inviting her to dinner with his parents, he told her she’d have to be sure to be
outta here, meaning the house, before Friday night when his parents arrived. And, he
The Bureau of Lost Earrings

2

said, maybe it would be better if we don’t see each other anymore.
She very nearly threw the remaining teardrop earring into a sewer drain at the
corner of Marlborough Street and Mass. Ave. on her way home.

III. Two Turtle Doves
Hilary’s mom bought her the nesting turtle dove earrings the year she graduated
college. By then, Noah had been an inpatient at McLean for more than a year. Hilary
visited her brother every few months but their mother hadn’t seen him since the day they
dropped him off.
Of course I love him, her mother had said as they pulled away.
Of course you do, Hilary had answered, without taking her eyes off the road.
Her mother handed her the tiny box at breakfast the morning Hilary arrived back at
her mom’s apartment, a dismal way station while she looked for her own place.
Just a little something I thought you might like, her mother said, aligning her butter
knife with her spoon.
Each silver turtle dove perched on its nest of red glass. Why red nests, Hilary could
never figure. Maybe because silver and red were festive holiday colors. More mysterious
was her mother’s thinking. Turtle doves conjured Christmas and, good secular Jews that
they were, they often exchanged gifts around the Christ-child’s birthday with a heavy
sense of irony. But this was the middle of June.
Thanks, Ma, Hilary said, and threaded the wires through her ears.
Her mother smiled and reached under her chair.
And this, she said.
She handed Hilary a box covered with silver filigree of a most hideous gaudiness,
flowers and vines twining around each other, interrupted by small nests where silver
birds perched.
The Bureau of Lost Earrings

3

Your grandmother kept her jewelry in it. Maybe you can find a use for it.

IV. Menagerie
The turtle doves, founding members of an earring menagerie ten years in the
making that included snakes, cats, monkeys, butterflies, and even horses, hung on until
Noah’s funeral.
Hilary hadn’t worn the turtle doves in a long time but she remembered them as she
packed the black silk blouse and pleated wool skirt, remembered the shy pride her
mother had taken in presenting them along with the eggs and bacon that morning.
Were the turtle doves too festive for such a somber occasion? Hilary studied herself
in the steamed mirror of her mother’s bathroom on the morning of the funeral. She
decided no. Her brother wouldn’t mind a little festivity.
On the plane home after the funeral she supported her elbow on the armrest and
leaned her head against her hand. She stared out the scratched porthole. Cold air trickled
up from the crevice between armrest and window. The plane seemed in a hurry to return
her to the two little girls and the husband waiting in Albuquerque. Hilary’s fingers ached
to tickle her girls’ chubby bellies and comb themselves through the feathery silk of their
hair. Combing her own hair as if in preparation, watching the Midwest unroll below the
plane, she felt the absence of the right-side turtle dove.
Reflexively she checked her left ear. The other dove remained, a singleton now.

V. Doubles
The first time her husband bought her jewelry they’d already been married for ten
years. He had a good excuse: cash flow. There had always seemed to be something more
important to buy for birthdays and anniversaries, like a new washing machine or
replacement roof tiles.
The Bureau of Lost Earrings

4

Doug the engineer was so proud of himself when he handed her the two
indistinguishable boxes, both embossed with the name of a fancy jewelry store. Hilary
opened one to reveal gold rectangles etched with her initials. She opened the second and
found identical gold rectangles bearing identical initials.
Now it won’t be a big deal if you lose one, Doug said. You’ve got backup. He plucked
an earring from one of the boxes and held it up to her ear.
Hilary covered his hand with her own and guided it back down to the table. For a
moment, they both stared at the hunk of gold that fairly screamed expensive and
suburban matron.
Thank you, was all she could think of to say. How could someone who had shared
her bed and her life for ten years choose a style of jewelry so utterly at odds with who she
was? She’d have to lose three of the earrings to put both pairs out of commission.

VI. Studly
If one were to have an affair with a married man, it probably would be best not to
wear earrings at all. What if one snagged on your lover’s sleeve and he accidentally
brought it home and incriminated himself?
Probably it also was best not to give a gift of earrings to your lover, but Hilary
couldn’t stop herself. Matthew was eight years younger than she and wore an adorable
diamond stud. She loved to lick around it and bite his lobe playfully as if to chew off the
gem. When they had been sneaking around for six months she presented him with a
single emerald the same shape as his diamond but more raucous and demanding of
attention. She could tell the minute he opened the box that he’d find some excuse not to
wear it.
When Matthew broke off the affair, he gave her back the emerald stud in a gesture of
misguided goodwill. I’m sure you could use the money, he said.
The Bureau of Lost Earrings

5

Who the fuck was he to know whether she and Doug needed money, even if they did
have one college tuition to pay and another on the way? She laid the stud to rest with the
turtle dove, the four gold initialed rectangles, and a lonesome horse, the last surviving
member of the menagerie.

VII. All Is Lost
To be accurate, not everything was lost. The moving company mislaid only two of
fifty-three boxes, one containing kitchen utensils and the other containing Hilary’s
collection of scarves and her grandmother’s jewelry box. She was unsure which loss was
more upsetting: the box or the earrings it had contained.
Look at it this way, Tanya said. Now you get to start over.
Who wants to start over at forty-nine? Hilary whined.
She and Tanya Shoenberg had rediscovered each other when Hilary moved back to
Boston after her divorce from Doug became final. Now the house in Albuquerque was
sold, the proceeds divided, and Hilary felt just like her mother.
Tanya said nothing but a few days later presented her with an empty tea box.
To start your new collection, she said, and handed Hilary a second, smaller box.
Inside was another pair of earrings. Red orbs hung from gold chains like fat pinpoints of
blood.
Red jade is the stone of life-force energy, Tanya read from the slip of paper folded
inside the box. Wear it to overcome the fear that holds you back.
Hilary removed from her ears the only pair of earrings that hadn’t been lost in the
move because she had been wearing them, an utterly ordinary pair of department store
silver hoops, and replaced them with Tanya’s gift. The weight of the jade tugged at her
earlobes, which she had noticed recently were slackening along with the rest of her skin.
The bloody orbs swung merrily on their gold chains and tapped her neck when she
The Bureau of Lost Earrings

6

moved her head.
She wore the earrings non-stop from that moment until the day, four years later,
when she graduated from nursing school.

VIII. Addiction
You need different expectations when you change careers in your early fifties, Hilary
said to Clem, her first serious boyfriend since the divorce. She still couldn’t believe it—
boyfriend, serious—at her age, which would be fifty-five in a few months. Contrary to
popular wisdom, the mirror did seem to lie. She hadn’t looked so vibrant in years.
Clem was a pharmacist at the hospital and he wasn’t even fifty yet.
I seem to have a thing for younger men, she’d confided to Tanya.
She’d had to assure Clem after a few dates that she was no Nurse Jackie: she was
already divorced and certainly wasn’t a pill-popper like the tragic fictional nurse on the
hit TV show.
Everybody’s addicted to something, Clem had said.
Earrings. For me, it’s earrings.
Clem must not have believed her because he never bought her any. That was fine
with Hilary, who found that men’s ideas of what jewelry she should own always missed
the mark. When she landed the job at Brigham and Women’s, she went on an earringbuying spree. She quickly began losing them, like expensive new sunglasses that
disappear days after you buy them.

IX. Curlicue
Tanya caught divorce from Hilary like a contagious disease with a long incubation
period. Luckily it happened after Hilary finished nursing school. She’d had no time for
anyone but herself during those years of mad studying among kids half her age. But the
The Bureau of Lost Earrings

7

timing was still lousy, because Tanya needed a place to stay and Clem had just asked
Hilary to cohabitate. That’s what Clem called it when he popped the question, grinning
behind his salt-and-pepper beard.
Hilary suspected several of her earrings had succumbed to the sandpaper
ministrations of that beard. One morning, noticing the absence of one of her favorites, a
simple twist of silver with a delicate curlicue at the end, she began turning upside down
every location in her apartment where he had nuzzled her, starting at the kitchen
counter—unfolding and examining each page of the Globe, holding up the dish towels by
their corners—and moving to the living room, denuding the couch of its cushions and
conducting a grid-patterned search of the rug.
Clem was at work but Hilary had the day off. She yanked the sheets from the bed—
still her bed, still her apartment, not yet officially cohabited. She shook the sheets,
listening for the tell-tale plink of metal on hardwood. Then the pillows. Then she got
down on her hands and knees and sighted under the bed across an expanse of floor that
could have used a vacuuming. She ran her hand between the headboard and the
mattress.
Goddamnit, she said to no one, wondering why this loss was annoying her so much.
She and Tanya and Clem were all grownups. They ought to be able to work
something out. Instead Hilary felt like she was sixteen again, cradling her friend’s
emotions in one hand while stroking her boyfriend’s ego with the other. It was
ridiculous, the way you lived the long arc of a life expecting to come to some pinnacle of
wisdom and found yourself trudging up the same slopes again and again. She thought of
Tanya, who no longer looked like the Tanya who’d accompanied her to the Combat Zone
all those years ago, soon to be out on her own and, if you were being honest, seeming
much worse for wear than Hilary did. Poor Tanya. Poor Clem. Such a sweet bear of a
man. But was he the bear she wanted to spend the rest of her life with? Because that’s
The Bureau of Lost Earrings

8

what this would mean, cohabitating. How much time did either of them have left?
Twenty years, maybe, or thirty if they were lucky. This choice carried a weight that the
decision to marry Doug at twenty-eight never had, nor had her invitations to various
men to join her in bed for a night or a year, nor even switching careers late in life,
because a career, after all, was only a career, while a relationship was—
Hilary tipped her head back. The single silver curlicue brushed her neck. She
reached up, worked it from her ear, and laid it on the bedside table.

X. Bennington
Why Vermont?
Clem’s jaw quivers behind his beard. Hilary thinks he’s trying not to cry.
She shrugs. Bennington’s a college town. We like college towns. Hilary doesn’t need
to say Tanya’s name; of course Clem knows the other half of the we she is referencing.
Just that morning, beginning what she hopes will be the last apartment-packing job
she ever does, she found the other curlicue earring at the bottom of a handbag she hardly
ever uses. The rediscovery doesn’t excite her as much as it once might have.
Later, when Clem leaves for the last time, his absence doesn’t upset her as much as
it once might have.
This time, she won’t entrust the earring box to the moving company. It will ride in
the car between her and Tanya. Hilary opens the box now and surveys the jumbled
glitter. She’ll keep all of these, but she’ll certainly buy another pair or two up in
Bennington. She doesn’t yet own the pair she wants to die in.

- END -

The Bureau of Lost Earrings

9


