Kindergarten  ended  yesterday.  He  was  finally  done  with  ABC  songs  and  
dumb  counting  games.  No  more  noodle  art  projects.  No  one  could  make  him  sit  
Indian-­‐style.  Today  was  summer.  Now  Reed  sat  alone  on  the  edge  of  his  sandbox.  
His  legs  were  not  twisted  like  a  pretzel.  His  feet  were  naked  and  tucked  under  the  
sand.  He  wore  shorts  with  his  knees  poking  out  and  sometimes  touching  each  other.  
His  fingernails  were  deep  in  the  moist  sand  and  the  mound  in  the  middle  of  the  box  
was  going  to  be  a  fort  for  his  army  men.  
Mom  sat  in  her  chair  on  the  patio,  sipping  iced  tea  and  talking  on  the  phone.  
There  was  a  pile  of  receipts  on  the  table  and  one  of  her  books  with  a  pen  inside.  
Behind  her  Emma  sat  with  Toby  and  a  bucket  of  chalk.    
A  spider  scuttled  up  the  side  of  the  sandbox  and  then  crept  along  the  board  a  
few  feet  away.  The  spider  was  brown  and  darker  than  the  wood  it  crept  across.  Reed  
did  not  notice.  He  watched  the  sand  slowly  cascading  between  his  fingers.  Out  of  the  
corner  of  his  eye  it  looked  like  any  old  blotch  of  stain.  But  stains  don’t  twitch.    
Reed’s  body  shook.  Toby  barked  from  somewhere  on  the  patio.  He  did  not  
take  his  eyes  off  the  creature  as  his  hand  reached  blindly  behind  him.  Spiders  liked  
to  scurry  beneath  the  boards  of  the  sandbox  or  hide  in  corners.  He  needed  to  keep  
the  monster  in  site,  but  he  also  wanted  to  maintain  distance.  At  any  moment  it  could  
pounce  onto  his  legs,  burrow  under  his  skin,  and  lay  its  little  spider  eggs.  He  didn’t  
dare  blink  as  his  fingers  curled  around  a  stick.  Weeks  later  he  could  wake  up  in  the  
middle  of  the  night  to  baby  spiders  crawling  out  of  his  kneecap.  He  swatted  at  the  
spider  until  it  became  a  blotch  on  the  wood.    
Reed  stared  at  the  dead  spider  for  a  bit  and  then  scraped  the  guts  away  with  
the  stick.  It  fell  over  the  edge  and  onto  the  gravel  under  the  swing.  That  was  Emma’s  
swing.  He  poked  the  stick  into  the  corners  of  he  sandbox  to  scare  out  any  other  
monsters.  There  was  bound  to  be  more.  Spiders  had  to  have  families.    
While  he  was  searching  Emma  snuck  across  the  yard  and  sat  opposite  him  in  
the  box.  
“Go  away,”  he  said.  
“Why  can’t  I  play?”  
It  was  his  sandbox.  It  was  not  Emma’s.  This  was  his  sand.  These  were  his  
men.  That  was  her  chalk.  There  was  her  swing.    
“Mom,  Emma’s  annoying  me.”  
Mom  said  something  into  her  phone  and  then  pressed  it  to  her  shirt.    
“You  can  share.”  
He  got  up  and  walked  across  the  backyard  towards  the  house.  Toby  was  lying  

in  the  shadow  of  Mom’s  chair.  A  few  feet  away  were  Emma’s  drawings.  There  was  a  
flower  that  took  up  a  whole  cement  square.  It  looked  just  like  the  ones  in  Mom’s  
garden.  Why  did  she  have  to  copy  everyone?  He  dragged  his  heel  through  the  middle  
of  the  flower  and  then  side-­‐to-­‐side.  The  bunny  was  next.  It  was  yellow.    
Emma  screamed.  Then  she  began  to  cry.  Mom  scraped  her  chair  across  the  
cement  and  slammed  her  phone  on  the  table.    
Rain  fell  in  buckets  that  night.  Reed’s  bed  was  flush  with  the  window  and  he  
sat  up  listening  to  the  rain  pelt  the  roof  and  slosh  in  the  gutter.  He  pressed  his  finger  
to  the  cold  pane  and  followed  the  raindrops  that  slipped  down  the  glass.  Big  drops  

started  at  the  top,  fell  down,  and  absorbed  smaller  drops  until  they  disappeared  at  
the  bottom  of  the  window.  Tomorrow  the  sand  would  be  moist  and  perfect  for  
building.    
It  was  always  hard  to  fall  asleep.  Reed  would  move  around  in  bed  for  a  long  
time  while  Toby  lay  curled  in  a  ball  under  his  Christmas  blanket  at  the  end  of  the  
bed.  Tonight  he  was  shaking  because  of  the  storm.  Reed  patted  the  little  lump  of  
blanket  a  few  times  to  calm  him.  Then  he  closed  his  eyes  and  put  his  face  into  the  
cold  part  of  the  pillow.  Sometime  later  he  heard  Emma  dragging  her  blanket  into  his  
room.    
“Can  I  sleep  with  you?”  
Reed  pretended  to  be  asleep  and  hoped  she  would  just  leave.  But  she  climbed  
under  the  covers  with  him  and  Toby.  She  pulled  her  yellow  blanket  up  to  her  mouth  
and  thumb.  It  was  right  in  between  the  both  of  them.  Reed  opened  his  eyes  and  
looked  at  her  mop  of  brown  hair  falling  over  the  blanket  and  onto  his  pillow.  
Thunder  clapped  and  Toby  shook.  Emma  crawled  over  to  him  and  Reed  left  the  bed.  
He  took  his  pillow  with  and  climbed  to  the  top  bunk.  Emma  tried  to  follow  him.    
He  never  slept  up  there.  Sometimes  he  pretended  the  bunk  bed  was  a  pirate  
ship.  The  blankets  were  sails  and  the  bed  posts  helped  to  steer  the  ship  through  
stormy  seas.  The  green  carpet  was  the  ocean.    
  

The  day  after  Emma  got  her  cast  Mom  took  him  to  the  Doctor’s.  Dad  met  

them  there  after  work.  Reed  liked  when  adults  asked  him  questions  but  he  didn’t  
want  to  be  asked  about  Emma’s  arm  anymore.  It  was  all  he  heard  Mom  talk  about  on  
the  phone.    

  

Reed  examined  the  Doctor’s  fish  tank  while  the  adults  talked  quietly.  There  

was  a  man  in  a  black  diving  suit  at  the  bottom  of  the  tank  next  to  one  of  those  
sunken  treasure  ships.  He  looked  at  the  diver  and  thought  of  one  of  his  army  men.    
  

“Do  you  like  the  water,  Reed,”  the  Doctor  asked.  

  

He  didn’t.  The  water  always  got  in  his  nose  and  made  it  sting.  But  he  dreamed  

of  swimming  under  the  water  at  the  pool.  There  was  no  snorkel.  He  didn’t  have  a  
kick  board  or  life  jacket.  The  sun  sparkled  on  the  surface  of  the  water  and  he  was  
under  it,  like  a  fish  traveling  in  the  ocean.    
He  saw  the  diver  sitting  at  the  bottom  of  the  deep  end.  Reed  swam  there  
easily,  effortlessly.  He  could  see  something  orange  in  the  diver’s  hand.  Treasure?  He  
reached  out  his  hand  to  the  diver.  They  were  only  a  few  feet  apart.    
But  he  couldn’t  get  any  closer.  His  legs  stopped  moving-­‐  refused  to  move.  
Then  his  arms  locked  up.  He  tried  to  call  for  help  but  only  bubbles  came  out  of  his  
mouth.  Please.  Please.  The  diver.    
Something  moved  out  of  the  corner  of  his  eye.  The  pool  cleaner  scuttled  
along  the  wall  of  the  pool.  Reed  was  trapped.  The  tentacles  wiggled  like  spider  legs.  
There  were  eight  of  them.    
  

Please.  Please.  The  diver.  

  

Mom  woke  him  the  next  morning  by  putting  Toby  in  the  bed  and  letting  him  

lick  Reed’s  face.    
  

“Time  for  your  medicine,”  she  said.    

  

She  told  Emma  that  it  was  so  he  could  play  nice  and  then  placed  an  orange  

and  black  capsule  in  Reed’s  palm.  Then  she  put  a  cup  of  juice  in  his  other  hand.  The  

doctor  told  him  not  to  chew  the  pill.  It  was  tasteless  anyway.  He  swallowed  it  and  
then  opened  his  mouth  for  Mom  to  inspect.    
“The  doctor  said  he  needs  a  routine.”  
Emma  stood  and  watched.    
  

The  sun  was  closer  to  the  backyard  than  any  time  of  the  year  but  Reed  spent  

most  of  the  summer  inside.  Emma  chased  Toby  through  the  sprinkler  and  slip-­‐and-­‐
slide  while  Reed  played  with  his  Legos  in  the  basement.  It  was  colder  and  quieter  
down  there.  He  could  build  more  things  with  the  bricks  than  with  the  sand  and  
buckets.  All  the  pieces  were  in  a  big  plastic  bin  and  not  in  the  boxes  he’d  unwrapped  
during  Christmas  and  his  birthday;  he  threw  all  those  away  and  just  built  what  ever  
he  wanted.  But  now  he  could  not  think  of  anything  to  build.  He  needed  help.  He  
needed  ideas.  
Luckily  Mom  kept  the  instructions  in  a  zip-­‐bag  under  his  bed.  He  carefully  
inspected  the  picture  instructions  before  acting  on  each  step.  First  he  made  the  T-­‐
Rex  and  space  station  like  the  ones  in  the  movies.  Dad  bought  him  a  set  called  “Tie-­‐
Fighter,”  and  Reed  kept  the  box  this  time.  There  were  clear  plastic  bags  with  many  
pieces  that  he  would  not  open  until  he  reached  those  parts  in  the  instructions.  When  
he  finished  he  arranged  it  like  the  action  picture  on  the  box  and  put  it  on  top  of  his  
dresser  with  the  dinosaur.    
He  did  not  want  to  play  with  them  like  Emma  did  with  her  dolls.  
“I  like  to  just  look  at  them,”  he  told  her.  
“Can  I  play  with  them,”  she  asked.    
“No.  They’re  only  for  show.”  

“That’s  boring.  You’re  boring  with  your  medicine.”  
He  had  never  worn  glasses.  His  Mom  was  the  only  person  he  knew  who  did.  
Still,  the  medicine  always  helped  him  to  see  well.  The  basement  walls  were  not  just  
gray.  They  were  concrete  and  cement.  The  carpet  was  made  of  tiny  little  threads  
crisscrossed  thousands  of  times.  Everything  came  into  focus.  Colors  jumped  out  at  
Reed  as  if  from  a  kaleidoscope.    
September  had  not  come  yet  but  Reed  was  already  busy  with  a  Christmas  list.  
He  sat,  legs  crossed  on  his  bed,  eagerly  flipping  the  many  pages  of  a  toy  magazine.  
The  wind  rustled  through  the  trees  outside  his  window  and  a  crack  of  thunder  made  
Toby  jump  off  the  bed  but  Reed  hardly  noticed.  He  was  circling  a  toy  or  Lego  set  on  
nearly  every  page.    
The  rain  began  to  fall  and  Toby  whined  at  the  door.    
“Toby,  stop  it,”  Reed  said  just  as  his  Mom  opened  the  door.  
“Reed,  bed.”  
He  circled  more  things  while  dad  picked  clothes  off  the  floor  and  put  them  
into  drawers.  
“Up  or  down,”  Mom  asked  with  her  hand  on  the  string  of  the  blinds.  The  
rattling  of  the  gutter  outside  the  window  was  loud;  the  rain  was  falling  hard  now.  
Reed  crawled  under  his  covers  and  turned  his  lamp  off.  He  looked  at  the  rain  softly  
hitting  his  window.  
“Down.”  
Like  most  nights  he  spent  hours  kicking  his  legs  and  tossing  in  his  bed.  Sleep  
came  in  bursts  and  when  his  eyes  were  not  closed  they  were  fixed  on  the  wooden  

slats  of  the  bunk  bed.  Mom  had  taken  the  blankets  and  mattress  down  but  left  the  
frame  because  there  was  no  room  for  it  in  the  crawl  space.  No  one  was  allowed  on  
the  top  bunk.  He  didn’t  want  to  go  up  there  anyway.  He  kept  picturing  Emma  falling.  
Falling  like  a  traitor  on  a  pirate  ship.  Falling  from  the  plank  into  the  green  waves.  
She  had  fallen  at  least  a  hundred  times  since  that  first  night.  He  wanted  a  time  
machine  so  he  could  go  back  and  save  her.  Maybe  he  could  build  one  with  his  Legos.  
That  was  all  he  wanted  right  now.    
A  toy  car  racetrack  wove  under  and  over  chairs  and  tables  in  the  basement.  
He  was  trying  to  replicate  the  one  from  the  back  of  the  car  box.  It  started  at  the  top  
of  the  stairs  and  looped  three  times  before  running  under  the  couch.  When  he  heard  
the  crash  he  knew  it  was  from  his  room.  He  knew  it  was  something  on  his  dresser.  
He  thought  it  was  Emma.  Footsteps  and  the  pitter-­‐patter  of  Toby’s  paws  could  be  
heard  from  upstairs.  Reed  dropped  the  piece  of  track  in  his  hand.    
Usually  his  door  was  open  for  Toby  to  go  in  and  out.  Reed  found  it  closed.  He  
opened  it  and  looked  at  the  floor  in  front  of  the  dresser.  The  T-­‐Rex  was  in  pieces.  
Emma  was  playing  with  three  dolls  under  the  big  tree  in  the  back  yard.  None  
of  them  had  clothes,  but  two  were  in  a  little  pink  car  that  Emma  pushed  in  the  
mulch.  Reed  lowered  his  hand  down  into  the  car  and  plucked  out  the  doll  from  the  
passenger  seat.  He  held  it  up  above  Emma  and  ripped  the  left  leg  out  of  the  socket.  
Emma  started  to  cry.  Then  she  started  to  scream.    
The  sliding  glass  door  opened  with  a  slam.  Soon  Mom’s  arm  was  tight  under  
Reed’s  and  dragging  him  into  the  house.  Emma  sat  crying.  She  couldn’t  fix  the  doll.    

Saturday  was  one  of  the  last  times  Dad  would  need  to  cut  the  grass  that  year.  
Reed,  Emma,  and  Dad  had  just  finished  cereal.  Mom  was  at  work  but  left  a  note,  
which  Dad  read  aloud.  
“We’re  out  of  juice  but  Reed  still  needs  to  take  his  medicine.”  
Dad  placed  the  black  and  orange  capsule  on  the  table.  
  

“I  need  my  juice.”  

  

“Just  swallow  it  like  a  big  boy.  Swallow.”  

  

He  tried  but  the  pill  kept  sticking  to  his  tongue.  He  wanted  to  chew  it  but  

remembered  that  his  Mom  had  told  him  not  to.  Reed  could  feel  the  pill  collapsing  
and  the  beads  spilling  out.  The  capsule  was  melting.  The  beads  tasted  like  chalk.  
  

“Just  spit  it  out  then.”  

  

He  scraped  the  pill  off  his  tongue  and  rinsed  his  fingers  under  the  faucet.  The  

rushing  water  pushed  the  beads  down  the  drain.  Gone.  
  

“One  day  won’t  kill  you.”  

  

He  looked  out  the  backyard.  It  had  been  along  time  since  he  had  played  in  the  

sandbox.    
  Much  of  the  sand  was  wet,  perfect  for  building  mountains  for  Reed’s  army  
men.  He  carved  bunkers  with  his  fingers  and  placed  sticks  in  the  sand  to  mark  the  
perimeter  of  the  base.  Then  he  positioned  his  men  according  to  their  skills.  The  ones  
with  bazookas  were  his  favorite.  He  hummed  softly  as  he  pushed  the  jeep  over  the  
sand  hills.  Dad’s  lawn  mower  was  close  to  the  patio  where  Emma  sat  with  her  chalk.        
  

Reed  looked  down  at  his  sand  mountain.  Something  on  top  of  it  twitched.  His  

body  shook.  He  reached  for  a  stick  behind  him  and  then  swatted  at  the  insect.  It  was  

a  Monarch  Butterfly.  Reed  recognized  it  from  the  pictures  at  kindergarten.  He  had  
crumpled  one  of  the  spotted  wings;  the  stick  lay  abandoned  at  the  edge  of  the  sand  
box.    
  

Reed’s  hand  shook.  He  tried  to  straighten  the  collapsed  wing  but  it  was  thin  

and  stuck  to  his  fingers.  The  wing  was  melting  and  when  he  tried  to  scoop  up  the  
butterfly  the  spotted  orange  wing  tore  from  the  black  body.  There  was  no  going  
back.  He  looked  up.  Emma  was  sitting  opposite  him,  watching.  He  reached  across  
the  sand  and  hugged  her.  Tomorrow  he  would  start  first  grade.  
  
  


