On Thursday Harry got word that he’d been appointed to the Task Force. He felt
that it was an honor that he had long deserved, but tried to restrain his enthusiasm as he
phoned the director of the department from which he’d received notification of his
appointment. “George, Harry,” he said, when he heard the familiar voice at the other end
of the line, “I’ve received your letter about the Task Force. I am,” he paused for the
appropriate emphasis, “gratified.” Perhaps the emphasis had been too much—he’d
nearly growled that last word—because it took George a moment before he said, “Good,
Harry, good. We meet Monday, you know. In the conference room at the Department.”
Only as the phone went dead did Harry realize that George had said nothing about
the purpose of the Task Force and that he had no idea what significant societal issue it
was to address. Surely, he thought, he had overlooked that important detail in the
appointment letter. But, no, a more minute scrutiny of that document still left him in the
dark. Picking up the phone, he called George back. But when George got on the line he
got cold feet. It was embarrassing to ask such a fundamental question after
enthusiastically accepting membership on the Task Force. And, too, how well did he
know George? Sure, he’d known him for years, but he was always out for himself. How
did he know he wouldn’t screw him? If it would help him for the Governor or the press
to think Harry was such a dumbass that he didn’t even know the purpose of the Task
Force, would he be able to resist?

“What’s up?” George asked.
“I meant to ask you if you like to get together for a drink tonight.”
“Good idea. Why don’t you drop by my office after you leave work?”
Harry thought he’d certainly fallen on his feet after that one. Not only did he
avoid embarrassing himself, he’d put himself in business for finding out the purpose of
the Task Force. He knew George had no secrets after he’d had a few drinks. They went
to a place George recommended where all of the cocktail waitresses looked younger than
Harry’s tie. George leered at him knowingly as they were seated, then ordered each of
them a vodka and tonic. He remembered now that George always ordered drinks for
everyone, priding himself on knowing what everyone drank. Harry preferred a good
English gin to the tastelessness of vodka with his tonic, but George was oblivious to this
fact. So be it. He would even drink vodka to get to the bottom of this Task Force
conundrum.
After the drinks had arrived and they’d had a go at them, Harry put his toe in the
water.
“I believe the concerns of the Task Force are of great moment.”
“The Governor thinks so.”
“To the entire state.”
“The people are concerned.”
“Perhaps the nation.”
“Well, you know, Maxwell doesn’t care much about the nation right now, but
long term . . . ”
“I too am personally concerned.”

2

THE TASK FORCE
“You are?”
Harry paused, brought up short by George’s tone of incredulity.
“Well, I mean, aren’t you?”
“Frankly, Harry, I don’t give a shit.”
“You don’t?”
“Hell, no. I’m surprised you do. What the Governor wants is to make people
think somebody’s doing something. While he works on his real agenda. Higher office.”
“Well, of course I knew that.”
“Sure you did. You’ve been around. We’re not putting any young Turks on the
Task Force, no angry young men, no fucking crusaders. I guess you saw we’re supposed
to have to have a final report done in six months. We’ve been told privately that under
no circumstances are we to have a report done then. Eight months, a year. That’d be
fine. Have to get beyond the election. The damnedest thing, isn’t it? The things that get
people all riled up. Can you imagine being worried about a thing like this? Christ!”
Harry guffawed in his best imitation of what he thought he’d sound like if he
knew what the hell George was talking about. “Still, it’s a complex problem.”
George looked at him as if he’d just farted the national anthem.
“Yeah, I suppose so. They’re all complex, aren’t they, when you really analyze
them? But you can’t tell the people that. You have to make them think you’re on top of
things and that there isn’t any problem too tough for you.”
A blond child-woman who wore the de rigueur mini-skirt and boots of the
establishment placed a bowl of peanuts on the table between them. Harry thought he
could almost hear the sound of George’s toes fusing to form cloven hooves as he looked

3

THE TASK FORCE
her over. He was beginning to remember that there were more things about George that
he didn’t like than he did.
“Who’s on the Task Force?” he asked.
“Oh the usual suspects, Harry. Buck Banshee and Fitz Warit. They were both
voted out of the legislature last session and are looking to keep their hands in. And
Scotty Worthington. You know one of the senior partners in his law firm, Brooks
Blatherskite, I think. And the Chief Deputy AG, P. Porridge Hotter. Mind like a steel
trap. And a woman from some minority group, Odetta MacPherson-Strut. And Curtis
McNutt, president of the Secured Holdings and Federal Trust Bank.”
“Who do you think is the most important to the purpose of the Task Force?”
“You, Harry, you.”
“Cut the shit, George.”
“No, really. You’re a consensus builder, Harry. We’ll need that ability with the
bunch of strong personalities we have on the Task Force. Like Buck Banshee for one.
You know how he is. Blah, blah, blah. Doesn’t know how to shut the fuck up.”
“Do we really need consensus?”
“Harry, Harry—you know how Webster is. He doesn’t want anybody pissing into
the punchbowl. No dissenting opinions. Unanimity. That’s what he wants.”
“But on a topic like this . . . I mean, you know, I’m sure there are aspects of the
concerns to be addressed by the Task Force that will be controversial.”
“Like what?”
Harry was stumped on that one and fell silent. The pubescent cocktail waitress
returned and George ordered two more of the damnable vodka and tonics. There were to

4

THE TASK FORCE
be more after that. By the time the evening was over the only thing Harry remembered
with clarity was that he still had no idea what the Task Force was about.
* * * *
The expansive conference room basked beneath the glow of a score of recessed
ceiling lights. In the midst of it was a huge table which was surrounded by padded swivel
chairs that cocked their arched backs at diverse angles like animals at a trough. As he
entered the room Harry recognized the local political reporter Bud Dudley talking to
Buck Banshee. Another reporter had George button-holed. George nodded almost
imperceptibly toward Harry in mid-sentence, then resumed his demeanor of fierce resolve
to the reporter. Harry made his way to the place that had been reserved for him at the
table and looked at the nameplates he could make out. They included several names
George had mentioned, and a few he hadn’t, including Clive Coriolanus, a bearded fellow
who was seated at his nameplate, Melvin Ex. Jones, who was presumably the nattily clad,
wiry black man hovering around his, and Mrs. June Taylor Dancer, a prim, graying
woman in a burgundy dress.
Harry eagerly seized the meeting materials. Finally, he would figure out what this
thing was about! The agenda was not revelatory, but that wasn’t surprising: agendas
seldom were. Beneath the agenda was a small paperback book entitled The Efficient
Conduct of Task Force Meetings by Laszlo Cysz, Ph.D. Under that was the Task Force
roster containing the members’ names in all of their glory. Scotty Worthington became
Remington Wainscot Worthington, III; Fitz Warit, F. Fitzhugh Warit. Clive Coriolanus,
it turned out, was the Director of the Klinginpiel Institute of Marine Science. But, except
for two well-sharpened pencils and a pristine legal pad there was nothing else.

5

THE TASK FORCE
Harry sat back in his chair feeling out-of-sorts. He would just have to wait to hear
George’s opening remarks. Surely there would be revelatory nuggets there. As George
rose from his place at the table, Harry leaned forward in his chair and almost felt as if his
ears were growing. If anyone were to have a coughing fit, he thought, his or her life
might well hang in the balance.
“We are here today to address a serious problem,” George began, “a problem that
has resisted the efforts of the best and the brightest in numerous previous administrations.
You can see it rear its ugly head throughout history from the very first civilizations. It’s a
persistent problem, and it has defied every previous effort to solve it. Indeed, it just
seems to get worse. Now, you may ask, how can we succeed where so many others for
so long have failed? Well, maybe it’s presumptuous of me, but I think we have a very
good chance of success. I think this for two reasons. One is the makeup of the Task
Force. We have a diversity that is virtually unprecedented. Because of this we know that
no viewpoint will be rejected out of hand or ignored, no potential solution overlooked.
The second reason is the Governor himself, Webster Spalpeen, a man with an
unprecedented commitment to problem solving, and a zealous desire to leave no stone
unturned in finding solutions for even the most intractable problems.
“Make no mistake: This will be a hard nut to crack. For that reason we will study
a vast array of resources, discuss them, and apply the lessons we can distill from them to
the problem at hand. We have a capable, dedicated staff to furnish us with everything we
need to do our job. Each of you will have to be prepared to make the necessary
commitment of time and energy to make effective use of these resources. If there is any
one of you who cannot make that commitment, now is the time for you to step down.”

6

THE TASK FORCE
There was a pregnant pause, during which of course no one stepped down, then
more inspirational rhetoric from George. But George said nothing that even approached
specificity about what this diffuse, inordinately difficult, pervasive-throughout-humanhistory problem was. It was difficult to believe that such a level of imprecise, unfocused
rhetorical abstraction could be sustained for such a long period of time—for George
spoke for nearly three quarters of an hour—but George did it brilliantly. Nor did the rest
of the meeting supply any helpful information. There was a moment of hope, however.
At a break George had told Harry who the Task Force members were whom he did not
know. One of them, Mrs. Dancer, was the so-called “citizen member,” the wife of a local
doctor. As the meeting wound toward its end, she raised her hand and asked tentatively:
“I was just wondering, because it doesn’t seem terribly clear, what exactly is the problem
that the Task Force is supposed to address?”
Harry sighed inwardly. Finally, he thought, he would know what the hell this
thing was about. He looked expectantly to George. George seemed stunned at first, then
his lower lip began to quiver and he began to blubber uncontrollably with laughter. He
seemed embarrassed, but he simply couldn’t stop. Then, slowly, one by one, every other
member of the Task Force also began to laugh, each with his or her own distinctive
sonority and nuance, until Harry decided he too must laugh, or be the only one other than
poor hapless Mrs. Dancer left inappropriately sober before the brazen ignorance of her
question. And so he laughed and laughed and laughed.
* * * *
Harry didn’t know how it had happened. Certainly no one had warned him ahead
of time. But somehow, without any discussion or dissent, he’d been elected chairperson

7

THE TASK FORCE
of the Task Force. He wasn’t worried. Clearly the purpose of the Task Force would have
to be entirely manifest in the package of materials that would accompany the second
meeting. But when they arrived in the mail, that did not turn out to be the case. There
were studies of everything from premarital sex among inner-city youth to the work habits
of first-generation Hispanic immigrants. It was impossible to extrapolate any single,
coherent conclusion from them. After reading everything twice, Harry concluded that the
purpose of the Task Force must be to focus on and solve problems deriving from either
inner-city crime, drug trafficking, premarital sex, AIDS, prison overcrowding, capital
punishment, cigarette smoking, abortion, child pornography, alcoholism, climate change,
the effects of agricultural chemical runoff on marine habitats, the deficiencies of public
education in poor neighborhoods, the high cost of legal services, the high cost of health
care, the effect of the high cost of legal services on the high cost of health care or vice
versa, the post-war industrialization of Japan (highly unlikely, he thought, but one of the
monographs so heavily emphasized this at the expense of all else that it was difficult to
understand why it was in the materials otherwise), the effect of television on violent
crime, the effect of television on creating apathy and pacifism, the correspondence
between television and literacy, or, perhaps, some strange amalgam of two or more of
these.
Not knowing what else to do, he decided that he would sleep on the problem and
hope for inspiration and clarity in the morning. It didn’t take that long. He awoke in the
middle of the night convinced that the subject the Task Force was convened to address
was crime. It had to be crime! It all fit together neatly when you got a handle on it.
Inner-city crime, drugs, AIDS spread by illicit drug use, prison overcrowding, capital

8

THE TASK FORCE
punishment, child pornography, educational deficiencies, the cost of legal services, the
effect of television on violent crime—all of these subjects of the readings were aspects of
the problem, a face of this multi-faceted question that had bedeviled the Athens of
Pericles and the London of Pepys. He laughed out loud, laughed with such assurance and
relief that he nearly forgot climate change and the post-war industrialization of Japan.
But when he remembered them, even they could not resist his procrustean bed. Clearly
climate change would destabilize societies and cause crime. And wasn’t it true, as the
monograph mentioned, that the crime rate in post-war Japan was very low? Why was
that? The answer to that question was obviously pertinent. Yes, crime it was!
He took the zeal born of his revelation into the next Task Force meeting where he
surprised everyone by the glow of resolve that densely enveloped him like the penumbra
emanating from Excalibur. His enthusiasm for the complex issue before the Task Force
so animated him that he vibrated like a tuning fork. Even George, no shrinking violet
when it came to highly charged rhetoric, told him he found his performance inspirational.
“Good going, Harry,” he said. “A real motivational performance. I think
everyone found your anecdotes and asides quite diverting. We can get down to business
at the next meeting.”
After the first flush of pleasure at George’s comments, Harry became troubled.
He could recall no anecdotes or asides. He had been all business, talking nothing but
crime, crime, and more crime. And what did George mean about getting down to
business next meeting? How could anyone get more down to business than he had?
Unless crime was not the problem the Task Force was to address. That was it, of course.
Not crime! He groaned inwardly at the realization that the third Task Force meeting was

9

THE TASK FORCE
looming ahead, the second that he would chair, and he was still uncertain—hell,
completely clueless, as in the dark as if all previous discussion surrounding the Task
Force had been in Swahili or Esperanto—about the purpose of the Task Force.
* * * *
So he finally did what he should have done to begin with: he went to the website
of the local newspaper and did a search for “Task Force.” There were several hits over
the last several weeks. Harry started with those that slightly predated his appointment.
The first article he pulled up on his computer screen noted that the Governor had
appointed a task force to study and make recommendations about poverty, the second that
he had appointed a task force to study the failures of the state’s schools. Then, a few
days later but still before his appointment, the Governor had appointed yet another task
force to look into and make recommendations about the state’s failing roads, bridges, and
other infrastructure. In each instance the newspaper accounts recorded that the Governor
had put George Grimshaw, his good friend, protégé, and former campaign director, who
was currently the Director of the Department of Aged Statistics, in charge of directing
and coordinating these task forces’ work.
So, Harry thought, the purpose of the Task Force was either poverty, education, or
infrastructure. That was points. But when he pulled up the next article, which was
published the day before he received his appointment, he was unduly depressed to see
this caption: “No Task Too Small for Governor.” The article that followed said this:
“Governor Maxwell Spalpeen has probably set some sort of record with the number of
task forces he has appointed to study and make recommendations on various problems
facing the state. No previous governor has used this mechanism to such a great extent.

10

THE TASK FORCE
At last count, Spalpeen had directed the convening of 47 task forces to study everything
from poverty and corruption to tax fraud, cyber piracy, and whether the state parks should
be sold to reduce the deficit.” Well, Harry thought, certainly George couldn’t be in
charge of 47 task forces, could he? As he read on he saw this: “George Grimshaw, who
the Governor has put in charge of all of these task forces, noted, ‘The Governor strongly
feels that there is no better way to address the serious problems confronting the state than
by convening groups of the very best people to study them and recommend solutions.’”
“Shit,” thought Harry.
* * * *
Harry chaired the next meeting of the Task Force as if suffering from narcolepsy
or trypanosomiasis. The combined failure of his crime initiative and his discovery of the
mind-boggling breadth of the Governor’s faith in task forces, and in George keeping
track of all of them, left him in a nearly comatose state. Again, the materials for the
meeting were no help. There was no logical thread that ran through them. Some seemed,
frankly, bizarre beyond all belief. The prime candidate in this regard—a long essay on
Aquinas’s cure of Reginald of Piperno of tertian fever—was disposed of when a staff
member apologized for copying the wrong article. It was supposed to be an article about
aquariums, she said sheepishly. But still remaining in the welter of diverse information
were, among other things, photocopied articles on the disappearance of the black
rhinoceros and on the dismal conditions surrounding the production of bricks in Pakistan.
Woefully perplexed, Harry shifted his plan of attack: he asked the members of
the Task Force to apply the materials to the problem under scrutiny. Things got off to a
promising start when Odetta MacPherson-Strut noted that she thought the point of the

11

THE TASK FORCE
article on the black rhino was to show how the government corruption in Kenya had
impaired efforts to protect this endangered species. This moment of promise was
immediately blunted by Buck Banshee who wanted to know what possible relevance that
could have in a state with squeaky-clean government. Scotty Worthington said the
Pakistani brick production article seemed to be about government corruption too and
therefore was also irrelevant. Melvin Jones said he couldn’t figure out what either article
had to do with the subject of the Task Force.
Here, with the speed of D’Artagnon flicking away the blades of the cardinal’s
guard, Harry said, “And, Mr. Jones, what do you believe that subject to be?”
Before Jones could answer, Mrs. Dancer, who had been trying to ingratiate herself
with the Task Force members and resurrect herself from their ridicule since the first
meeting, said, “Surely you don’t have to ask Mr. Jones that. Everyone knows that.”
Everyone laughed, this time with, rather than at, Mrs. Dancer. Everyone, that is, except
Harry. And George. Because George wasn’t there. One of his other 46 task forces must
have been meeting.
* * * *
“This is Bud Dudley,” said the man on the phone.
“Bud, Harry Grandstaff. How you been doing?”
“Fine, Harry. You?”
“Just fine. Listen, Bud, I saw you at the first meeting of the Task Force.”
“Which task force?”
“Well, the one I’m on. But I never saw an article.”

12

THE TASK FORCE
“Yeah, we made the editorial decision not to cover all of these task forces. Christ,
how many has Spalpeen convened? Forty? Fifty?”
“Forty-seven, I believe.”
“We just don’t have the resources to cover all of those, Harry. At least not after
the layoffs.”
“But you were at mine.”
“I went to several of the first meetings before it became apparent that Spalpeen
was just using this task force thing as a gimmick and we made the decision not to cover
them. Hell, they even sent me to the first Shark Task Force meeting. Some kid gets
gnawed on by a shark down at the beach and Spalpeen appoints a fucking shark task
force! Can you believe it? Ichthyologists, marine biologists, pop culture sharkologists—
all these people getting together to waste the taxpayers’ money and figure out that sharks
are big aggressive fish with lots of teeth and like to eat big chunks of meat and don’t care
if it’s human. Jesus H. Christ!”
“But mine, Bud, surely you don’t think mine—?”
“Which one is yours, Harry? I can’t keep them all straight in my mind. Harry . . .
Harry . . . ?”
But Harry had cut off the connection. It was clear that he wasn’t going to learn
what the purpose of the Task Force was from Dudley. And now he had a further worry.
Because in the latest package of readings he’d received from the Task Force staff was
this: “Instances of Aggressive Behavior by Sharks off the Great Barrier Reef: 19571975.” And there was that monograph from the first meeting about the effects of runoff
of agricultural chemicals on marine habitats. Imagine you’re a fifteen-foot-long shark

13

THE TASK FORCE
swimming through crystalline waters and suddenly you get this big shot of Ortho-Gro up
your nose. It would make you want to bite somebody’s leg off, wouldn’t it? And what
about that article on aquariums that the girl on the staff had mistakenly not copied?
There were sharks in aquariums, right? Then there was Clive Coriolanus? Of course he
had to be a marine biologist, didn’t he? Or an ichthyologist or a sharkologist? What else
would he be at the Klinginpiel Institute of Marine Science? And there were other people
on the Task Force that he didn’t know what the hell they did. They could be some sort of
–ologist or other too. He remembered George’s opening peroration at the first Task
Force meeting about how old the problem was that they would be addressing. Sharks had
been around since prehistoric times. Undoubtedly, they’d been attacking people that
went into the water since there’d been people. Finally, he remembered George laughing
and saying, “The damnedest thing, isn’t it? The things that get people all riled up.”
There was no question about it: He was the chair of the fucking Shark Task
Force!
* * * *
Well, at least, Harry thought, now he knew, as he stared around the table at the
next meeting. Clive Cuspidor, Clive Cloaca, Clive Cunnilingus? The marine-friggin’biologist! What the hell was his name? There he was at the far end of the table but he
couldn’t call upon him to opine on the paper about sharks unless he could remember his
name. He couldn’t just say, “Hey, Clive.” That would sound too crass. Damned senior
moment! He rummaged through his papers looking for the Task Force roster. While he
was looking, Curtis McNutt, president of the S.H.A.F.T. Bank, piped up.
“Am I the only one here who thinks we need to get rid of this Ms. Pennywhistle?”

14

THE TASK FORCE
“Eh, what?” Harry asked.
“This staff member Petula Pennywhistle. This is the second time she’s wasted
our time by copying the wrong article. I mean I guess I learned a lot about Aquinas and
sharks but I only have so much time.”
“Actually,” observed Clive Cuspidor, “the article about sharks was terribly dated.
Much more recent research exists.”
“But the point is,” said Buck Banshee, “this girl can’t seem to keep her mind on
her work. What was it she said she was supposed to have copied?”
“Article about pottery shards discovered at various archeological sites of the early
Native American peoples of the state,” said Scotty Worthington. “Truth be told, I don’t
see how that would have had much relevance to what we’re looking at either.”
“The shark article was wrong?” Harry asked in the tone of a child who has been
told that, no, there is no more cake.
“Oh, yeah,” growled Banshee. “You didn’t hear that? You must have been in the
men’s room.”
“No . . . sharks . . . ”
“You sound surprised. Just what in hell did you think sharks had to do with
anything we’re looking at? You think we’re on the Shark Task Force or something? You
know, my old school buddy Chap Chapman is on that.” Banshee looked around the room
to verify that there were no reporters. “Seems like Webster went a little off the edge with
that one.”
“Our concerns, on the other hand,” Harry offered, “are of great moment.”
“No question about it.” Banshee laughed. “No question.”

15

THE TASK FORCE
* * * *
Harry never did determine what the purpose of the Task Force was, but he began
to wonder why he’d ever cared. No specific proposal was ever put forth or debated, and
he wasn’t sure whether this was because no one was certain what they were supposed to
be doing, or because they knew but further understood that the topic under scrutiny was
so complex and insoluble that specific proposals would expose them to criticism. It was
probably a little of each. But the point was that he was at no disadvantage whatever
because of his ignorance. Rather, that ignorance—or “lack of specific knowledge” as he
called it to himself—was a positive attribute. He had total deniability. Should the Task
Force make any controversial proposal, he could dissociate himself from it with the
unimpeachable credibility of someone who had no idea what had been going on.
From idly pondering why he, who knew so little, had been made chairperson of
the Task Force, he came firmly to believe that his choice had been enlightened, positively
inspired. No one could possibly have brought so much objectivity to the role, or have
exercised leadership so totally unfettered by prejudice. The example of his leadership
was the example that prevailed on all of the highest levels. Hadn’t the Governor just
given a fifty-minute speech on education in which he hadn’t made a single specific
proposal? “Educating our children is our hope for the future,” he said; and “Our teachers
are the linchpins of our system”; and “Getting back to basic values in the schools is
fundamental”; and so on. Each governor, in fact, seemed to outdo his predecessor in this
ability to assume a magisterial pose in which great general truths were stated and
enfeebling minutiae were rejected. Why divide the people with details that could not or
would not be implemented. Tell them things everyone could agree on and move on.

16

THE TASK FORCE
That was leadership! And what of the members of the legislature, some of whom had
been re-elected four, five, or six times, when had any of them spoken in terms other than
those embraced by the Task Force? There was no question that, despite his brief
delusions to the contrary, he had been the perfect chairperson. He had guided the group
unerringly through the troublesome shoals of potential controversy and presided over the
genesis of a final report that spoke exclusively in the exalted terms of public discourse.
That was leadership!
Harry proudly opened the lengthy Final Report of the Task Force and read the
executive summary:
It was the consensus of the Task Force that no
single solution to the problems that were lengthily
studied presented itself. It was clear, however, to
all who participated in the process that coordinated
efforts at all levels of government were imperative if
any progress was to be made. The current climate
of “the left hand not knowing what the right hand is
doing” was universally lamented by the Task Force
members. One member even stated that in his
experience duplication of services had become such
a chronic problem that a year-long study had been
instituted to recommend ways to deal with it.
Obviously, the Task Force did not have the leisure
to wait for the conclusions of that study. Our
mandate was to finalize our conclusions within six
months. While the complexity of the issues being
addressed resulted in our taking considerably more
time than that, we were nonetheless mindful of the
need for haste and proceeded with all requisite
dispatch, not giving short shrift to any of the myriad
ramifications of the problem before us, but not
indulging in endless scrutiny of any of those
ramifications either. After this rigorous process, we
have agreed on the following recommendations (the
full description of which will be found in the text
that follows):

17

THE TASK FORCE

















Conduct a complete and full analysis of all
presently existent governmental systems that
bear upon the problem and consider their
consolidation or streamlining to deal
effectively with it. Strive to cut bureaucracy.
Consider criminalization of types of
behavior that make the situation worse, and
de-criminalization of types of behavior that
make things better, or do not affect the
situation one way or the other.
Prioritize appropriations that directly bear
on ameliorization. Encapsulate current
available funds into hard-hitting, focused
types of expenditure that will appreciably
and immediately have an effect.
Do away with useless programs that have
outlived their usefulness, or were never
useful at all. Retain only personnel that can
be productively reassigned to taut, decisive
programmatic goals.
Seek to implement greater cross-agency and
cross-departmental cooperation. Eliminate
“balkanization” in government.
Prioritize all currently pertinent programs
to assure that those that most specifically
and meaningfully address the current
situation receive full backing before more
tenuous and questionable programmatic
efforts are attempted.
Consider de-regulating activities that would
more efficiently function without
governmental oversight, and the
unregulated functioning of which constitutes
no threat to the public. Consider regulating
presently unregulated activities that justify
regulation under the above criteria.
Sensitize the public to the nature and extent
of the current situation so that they will
understand the pervasiveness of the
problem, and support the measures that
must be undertaken to combat it.
Consider the appointment of another task
force to facilitate the implementation of the
recommendations made by the Task Force.
-- Harry Grandstaff, Chairperson

18

THE TASK FORCE

Harry put down the report, shifting his gaze to the front page of the morning paper
where he was pictured shaking the hand of the recently re-elected Governor Maxwell
Spalpeen. “Governor Congratulates Task Force Head,” the caption read. Harry hadn’t
read the accompanying article. It might, he thought, cloud his objectivity and fill him
with the type of prejudice borne of specific knowledge that could jeopardize his future.
From being a minor functionary in an obscure governmental agency, he was convinced
that his heading up the Task Force would be his springboard to greater things. He simply
knew too little to be ignored any longer.

19


