Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin this story, I’d like to introduce myself. I am
me, and me is we, and my name is Now. Thank you.

“Excuse me everybody. Please take your places. Silence!” Now said, starting the
meeting in her bossy tone. “We have a potential expulsion set for today. It's time we
integrate our aggregates. We've come pretty far together with no major mishaps. This is
the time we solidify our personality.”
“I see you 17, and 23, but where is 5? Why can't she just grow up once? Today
really is about her. We need to discuss her antics. Frankly, I think it's time to shut 5
down.”
We, the personality, are otherwise present. I run all of us. I'm very much in
charge. I am the consolidation of all moments as they happened. I am us at all ages and
always at this moment, Now. As the integrator of us all, this morning I have the
unfortunate task of playing the role of The Expulsionist.
17, the sweet hippy sitting crossed legged on a brainbench, picking her split-ends,
is my best friend. Her peace, love, and happiness lifestyle has left us in tailspins
searching for the exit to get off this ride. But 17 is cool. Being directly responsible for
love, sex, flirtation, and pleasures of the skin, 17 has an enviable existence and has
satisfied her appetites in countries near and far. I truly love her clothes too, the little
flower child. We all approve of her shell necklaces.
Conversely, 23 is the holder of all the responsibility. The running of the integrated
self, career, husbands, and babies, has fallen to 23. To be certain, none of us would have
succeeded, in any way, without the diligence of 23. And we never hear the end of it. As
to her clothes, boring! She buys them, I throw them out, along with her good, brown,
German shoes.
Which brings us to 5, the lovable curmudgeon, ineffable, free spirited, selfish
brat. This kid has been getting too big for us. The experience snatcher keeps showing up
at inopportune times and just takes over. She is showy and thoughtless of others' feelings,
especially mine. 5 is happiest in the least amount of clothing possible, and prefers
wearing nothing at all.
So I continued addressing the assembled. “Is there any dissent to the opinion? 5
has to go dark, right?”
The duo hushed, hands folded, squeezed white, hair nervously flicked over
shoulders. “We’re on the same page?” I asked. It's often so tedious having to placate this
unwieldy group. “Are we ready to pass this and boot 5 out, at least for a while?”
17 stood up unsteadily, eight in the morning and already high on weed, and said,
“That’s cold, man. I think we need to reconsider this. Remember all the joy that little
bugger brought us over the years?"
“Don’t forget all those cavities, a direct result of 5's junk food cravings,” heckled
23 from the back. “And why does 5 get control of our orgasm activity? I mean, really.”

2

5,17,23 and Now

"Desire is what we can’t lose. Our 5 has hungers,” reminded 17. “We need her
joie de vivre.​” There goes that 17, always throwing French around.
Now, or I, or us, to be accurate, continued the plea, "All this insurrection we've
been experiencing, the slipping of the goals, the immaturity, the avaricious unquenchable
hungers, sits at the dirty, scabby feet of 5. We spent years getting on this solid ground
and she’s mucking it up.”
“She has no shut off valve,” 23 said tersely. “5 embarrasses us. She always
squanders the benefits I work so hard to provide."
23 rocked back and forth agitated. “Hey, 23 is good times. It’s wrong that 17 and
5 take all the credit for our great life.”
“Jeez,” 17 said. “You’re always whining about your responsibility. 5 and I could
take over your job in a wink?
Getting rid of the scootch was more difficult than I had ever anticipated. I shifted
to a new tack, hoping to rein in 17. “Truthfully, I love 5,” Now wheedled. “When we
need to cry, 5 takes over. She’s a doll, no doubt. But she talks with her mouth full and
won't wear under panties. Frankly, she goes too far.”
“And this is what pisses you off so much, Now?” interrupted 17, incredulous.
“Look, I'm the integrator, but I don't think I have the power to keep 5 in place
anymore. Aren't you always chasing after something that she did or said, having to
apologize to somebody?”
“So what? ” 17 spit out. “5 has been handling our happy times since we were,
well, 5?” 17 took a deep breath then blurted out, “I know love and sex are under me, but

3

5,17,23 and Now

5 is in charge of all of our hedonistic pleasures, and that includes orgasms. No way. Not
giving them up. Not gonna happen​. ​5 s​ tays​ ​or I shut down too.”
Whoa, this has gotten out of hand.
“Where's that kid?” Now asked. “We have to talk with her. She must be
reprimanded for taking over the texting. Crimey, 17, resume all texting responsibilities,
please.”
Having heard this little debate from a hidey hole in the personality recesses, 5
took a gander. 17 wore an I hate teachers expression. 23, with all that serious judgment,
simply started sniffling. Now, wanting to know where that scamp was hiding, impatiently
scanned the space.
When out of nowhere the personality caught a chill. Now felt waves of
protoplasm wash over. Ordinarily, as the integrator, this syrupy goo wouldn't, shouldn't
register, yet, we shuddered from within.
Wait, how is this happening? Now hadn't initiated an integration. Uh-oh, 5 must
have swept over and assumed as integrator. But she doesn’t have the power to do this.
Does she?
She does not. Yet, after a hearty shake, here we are. The child has risen to the
position of leader of the personality.
Celebrating, 17 and 5 lit up the bong laughing about all the sex and orgasms they
were going to have. 23 felt the weight of the world descend upon her. She knew without a
strong Now, the happy hippie and the spoiled imp would run roughshod over her. And 23
went dark.

4

5,17,23 and Now

Now regressed to a braincloud for a long overdue sleep. Boundaries for 5 and 17
were dropped by the wayside. Insatiable appetites replaced rationalism. Desire defined
the personality.
“I am 5, the force of the self. If you have anything to say about it, take it to
Now- oh, oh, you can't. I wet my pants laughing at that one!"

5


