Itʼs Sunday morning late and Iʼm headed to the Church of Walmart. Thatʼs
what Jeff always calls it in that smart-ass mocking way of his. ʻHeading for the
Church of Walmart?ʼ heʼll say, while heʼs still scratching himself and reading the
sports page. But whoʼs he to mock? He hasnʼt been in any church since the day
we got married, and at least I go to the bingo at St. Roseʼs on Tuesday night. He
could get off his butt and help me – thatʼd be different. But I donʼt know. Heʼs
schlepping packages for U.P.S. all week in those stupid brown shorts – you have
to buy ʻem yourself – and on Saturday heʼs got the kids since Iʼve gotta be at the
JiffyQuick. Maybe layinʼ around on Sundayʼs what he needs to be doing.
Walmart is about as regular as church used to be. Sunday morningʼs the
only time itʼs not completely nuts in there, and it seems like thereʼs always
something we need. This week, for example, I need to get one of those little
scrubby sponges for the kitchen, you know, the kind that are rough on one side.
And little Bill needs jeans because he kneed out another pair on the playground
last week doing what I donʼt know but tearing up both his jeans and his knee.
And Katieʼs backpack, which you could put a backhoe in for Chrissake, isnʼt big
enough. Now they make ʻem like you see in airports with little wheels? Only with

Barbie or Brittany on the outside? Why they need these big books, I donʼt know.
Donʼt seem to be learning any more than anyone else ever did but there it is.
And weʼre almost out of laundry soap which if you buy it at the grocery costs
more than cocaine. Not that Iʼd know. And I couldnʼt find a sixty-watt light bulb in
the utility room even though I know I just bought some last month. I donʼt know
why everyone thinks Edison was so smart unless itʼs that he invented planned
obsolescence or whatever itʼs called. And Iʼve got a top to return, a teal tank kind
of thing that made me look fat. And thereʼll be a couple of other things, too –
there always are, you know? Stuff you didnʼt think of or thatʼs on sale? Anyway,
I try to keep it down to just once a week. Dotto, whoʼs one of my counter ladies
at the JQ? Sheʼs out there every other day at least. Thatʼs way more church
than anyone needs, I say.
So I actually get thinking about this when I turn off the highway onto the
access road, right there across from Chucky Cheese? Itʼs the sign. Thereʼs the
big blue Wal*Mart, of course, but the slogans are up there, too. We Sell For Less
and Satisfaction Guaranteed. You ever hear of a church that guaranteed
anything? They just donʼt, you know? You think Jerry Falwell ever gave
anybody a refund? And what would happen if St. Roseʼs hung out a banner that
said We Save For Less? Betcha thatʼd get some attention from the pewbirds in
town - except maybe the Episcopalians who donʼt think about money.
So thatʼs what Iʼm thinking about when I turn into the parking lot, and it just
about ends right there. I cruise down the center aisle like I always do, just to see

2

if thereʼs a spot there, but there never is. Itʼs like you got a better shot at winning
Megabucks, you know? But not today. Today it looks like my numberʼs coming
in. Just as Iʼm getting up towards the store, a blue Dodge Neon starts backing
out of the third space. The third space! The one right by the handicapped spots,
you know? And Iʼm poised to swing right into it until I notice that coming up
behind the Neon as it backs out is this ancient Oldsmobile with this tiny old lady
behind the wheel. I mean literally behind the wheel. Sheʼs so small that about all
you can see of her over its rim is her permed white hair. So I let the Dodge slide
by and wave her in. And then the jerk behind me in a mammoth Ford 350 starts
laying on the horn. What is with that? Anyway, I say to myself, ignore him, Patti,
and swing on around and park about half way up the far aisle, the one closest to
the river? But the thing is when I walk by, the cretin in the Ford has laid it across
two of the wheelchair spaces and is just sitting there with the engine running,
smoking a cigarette and pumping hydrocarbons into the air. It just makes you
shake your head and hope that Jesus meant it when he talked about humbling
those who exalt themselves. Which is judgmental, I know. I remind myself that
Iʼm not perfect and that I donʼt know what the guyʼs deal is at all – maybe his
handicapped plates havenʼt come in yet for all I know –but I still hit the automatic
door half p.o.ʼd and shaking my head.
Lorettaʼs there, as usual. Sheʼs the greeter most Sunday mornings, the
one whoʼd say, “welcome to Walmart,” only she has pretty bad Downʼs Syndrome
and canʼt say much of anything so the greeting is taped to the front of her chair

3

and she just waves at you, kind of, when you go in. Me and Jeff argue about her.
He says theyʼre exploiting her but I donʼt see how. Seems to me itʼd be worse to
hide her in a home somewhere like sheʼs some kind of leper or something. Why
shouldnʼt Loretta be able to go home at the end of her shift and feel like she did
something that someone else valued? Anyway, I say hi, get a smile from her,
and grab a cart. Then itʼs a hard right into customer service – best to get that out
of the way first.
Lucky for me, thereʼs only one person ahead of me in line. There are days
when it takes so long to get to the clerk youʼd think you were at an airline counter.
Not that even one person canʼt take long – today the woman in front of me, a tall,
skinny, platinum blonde in snakeskin pants, is trying to return a box of Honey
Bunches of Oats the size of a small suitcase. Next theyʼll have wheels on these.
“Theyʼre stale,” she says.
The clerk looks skeptical as if this just could not be happening in this
corner of Sam Walton country. She inspects the mammoth box carefully.
“Itʼs not past the freshness date,” she observes. Like that means
something.
“Maybe not,” the blonde says wearily. “But they are stale.”
“But itʼs not past the date.”
I have the sense of being caught on a carnival ride that will go round and
round without stopping. Rather than screaming, I interject, “Why donʼt you taste
them?”

4

Both women look at me curiously, as if I had just popped out of a UFO.
“Go ahead.” I try to sound encouraging. “Taste them.”
“Iʼm not going to reach into someone elseʼs cereal box!” the clerk says with
a tone that suggests I might as well have asked her to eat worms.
“Okay, fine. Iʼll do it. Give me the box.”
The blonde, still a little wide-eyed, takes the box from the clerk and hands
it off to me. By now, weʼve gathered two or three spectators but who cares. I
take the cereal, pop the top open, unroll the waxed paper innards, and scoop out
a small handful of flakes. They bend a little in my mouth before they crunch.
“Sheʼs right,” I say. “Theyʼre stale.”
The clerkʼs not happy but she surrenders, writes stale on her clipboard
form, and processes the refund. The skinny blonde slithers off and the crowd
disperses.
“And how may I help you.” The clerk, whose nametag labels her ʻAnn,ʼ is
a big girl wearing thick, black-rimmed glasses but even through them I can see
sheʼs giving me the evil eye.
“Well, Ann,” I say as sweetly as I can. “Iʼm returning this.” I put the teal
top and its receipt on the counter.
“Whatʼs wrong with it?”
Uh, uh. I am not going to tell this chick that some of my extra seven
pounds protrude like bread dough from the bottom of this top when I put it on. I
say, “Well, Ann, I just donʼt like it.”

5

She gives me a phony smile. “I have to ask why not. Rules and
procedures, you know.”
Who is this Pharisee? If I could overturn her table, I would. It looks pretty
solid, though, so I just say, “Look, honey, your big olʼ sign says Satisfaction
Guaranteed and I am not satisfied so why donʼt you just write that down?”
Applause from the man behind me who has his right arm through a truck
tire which rests on his shoulder. Other customers turn to look. Ann licks her lips,
makes a note, scans the receipt and the topʼs tag, and fishes seven eighty-eight
out of a drawer for me.
“Thank you so much, Ann,” I say, wishing that people didnʼt get into the
petty aspects of their jobs. At the JQ, I tell my counter ladies to think about how
they like to be treated but I guess no one ever said that to Ann. Too bad, thatʼs
what I say. Sheʼd probably be a helluva lot happier if someone had.
I roll out of customer service and over to the Dunkinʼ Donuts café, thinking
Iʼll have a cup of coffee before I start playing bumper carts in the aisles. Six of
the twelve tables are open, which may be some kind of record. Some weeks the
place is so jammed youʼd think it was the only donut shop in the state. I get my
usual – small coffee, cream only - though for a moment Iʼm thinking coffee roll, a
favorite, but not one thatʼs gonna help my tops fit any better. When I find a seat,
though, I notice that the rest of the folks there are eating – donuts and breakfast
sandwiches and fritters – and all of them are fat. Iʼm not talking a few extra
pound here, Iʼm talking tonnage. And one lady has three kids with her and all

6

three of them are fat, too. And Iʼm asking myself whatʼs with that but at the same
time I kind of get it, too.
Folks are hungry, you know? They want something more. Itʼs not about
food. Theyʼre hungry to feel good about themselves and they donʼt know how to
do that and they settle for something that will make them feel good even if itʼs
only two glazed donuts and the feeling only lasts for twenty minutes. Half the
time, thatʼs all Walmartʼs about – people buying stuff they donʼt need, hoping that
when they get it home, when they hang the matching coffee mugs on the wooden
mug tree made in Indonesia, hoping then theyʼll be all right. Probably weʼd all be
better off if we just went and took a walk.
Which I do, heading from the café towards menʼs and boyʼs clothes, where
it doesnʼt take me five minutes to find the jeans little Bill needs on sale for eight
ninety-nine. Gotta hand it to Walmart there. Maybe thereʼs a lot of junk in there
but they have got the basics covered. I drop two pairs in my cart, steer around a
rack of menʼs XXL tee shirts, and collide with Ray Hopkins, the town meter
reader, whoʼs an XXL himself. We make small talk about the weather before he
hefts his gut up onto his cart handle. Ray hasnʼt passed up many glazed donuts
over the years. “Did you hear,” he wheezes, “that Mrs. Cushing isnʼt well?”
Mrs. Cushing lives around the corner from us on Winter Street. I keep
thinking she must be a hundred but really sheʼs seventy-eight. “No, who told you
that?”

7

“She did. Was readinʼ in the neighborhood the other day and she came to
the door in a housecoat and told me she was feeling poorly”
Sheʼd have to be feeling poorly if she was wearing a housecoat. Mrs.
Cushing wears a dress and stockings to water her geraniums. “She been to the
doctor?”
“Hadnʼt been. Was going to, though. Yesterday, I think.”
I thank him as Iʼm heading for school supplies and begin thinking about
what I have at home thatʼd go in a casserole for Mrs. Cushing. Walmartʼs like the
village well in this respect – youʼre always bumping into someone who knows
something thatʼs helpful to know. Except for the transfer station, thereʼs hardly
any place else in town like that. Iʼm considering this and rolling past jewelry
when the intercom comes on.
“Excuse me, lady, but thatʼs a one way aisle youʼre in.”
Usually I donʼt even hear the thing but this is different. I slow down and
look up. Where else are you gonna look?
“Thatʼs right lady, you in the blue shirt – Iʼm talking to you. This is God
and Iʼm telling you to turn that cart around.”
Godʼs voice cracks and you can hear him trying not to laugh. Behind me I
catch two grinning faces peaking around a corner, teen-aged boys, fourteen,
maybe fifteen, who see me smiling and now step out and point. One of them
holds up a palm-sized microphone, like you see at Radio Shack? The voice of
God. Chuckling, I turn the corner into the detergent aisle.

8

And encounter a bald, red-faced manager with a WWJD bracelet and a
nametag that says Bobby Horner hustling my way like a storm trooper. He snarls
at me, “Did you see who did that?”
“Nope.” If the guy canʼt take a joke without blowing a cork, Iʼm not going to
help him. “Maybe it was God.”
He brushes past unsmiling, and I begin weighing the relative merits of
Tide, Cheer, and Purex (with advanced stain removal). It occurs to me that it
would be nice if all of lifeʼs stains could be removed with a half cup of powder and
some hot water. I know itʼs not that simple but I put the Purex in my cart anyway
and head into the food section.
This isnʼt a SuperWally with two acres of groceries but it does have a
couple of aisles of basics and Iʼm thinking that with a jar of button mushrooms,
some sour cream, and some meatballs I have in the freezer I could put
something together for Mrs. Cushing. Nothing special - but neither was five
loaves and two dried fish. They have both – the mushrooms and cream, not the
loaves and fish - so I collect them and head to housewares for my light bulbs and
my sponge. Neither is hard to find but now I remember that Iʼve skipped the
backpack so I reverse course and steer for school supplies again.
En route, I encounter the boys again, huddled up in Greeting Cards,
announcing a special sale on nail gun ammo in the hardware department. These
two crack me up, and I laugh until I run into Bobby Horner again, this time
reaming the cashier in electronics.

9

“Thatʼs the fourth time Iʼve had to clear this register today, Mary-Lou,” heʼs
growling. “If youʼre too stupid to handle this, weʼll have to find someone who
can.”
Mary-Lou looks completely beaten, and the whole thing just frosts me.
Without really thinking about it, I know what Iʼm going to do. I park my cart by a
stack of boxed Sanyo TVs, stomp back by Bobby, and go find the two boys in
Greeting Cards. They look a little apprehensive when I approach but brighten
right up when I ask to borrow the God-o-phone.
“Hey, Mr. Bobby Horner, this oneʼs for you.” Thereʼs about a half second
gap between when you say something and when the echo fades in the store.
Which is kinda cool. “Youʼre wearing your WWJD bangle; you wanna know What
Would Jesus Do? Let me tell you what Jesus wouldnʼt do. He wouldnʼt try to
embarrass anyone whoʼs just trying to do her job like you just did. You should be
ashamed of yourself!”
I give the boys the microphone back – both of them are looking at me a
little wide-eyed – and know right away that I shouldnʼtʼve done it, that it was really
just the same thing that Bobby was doing himself. Woman, I hear my conscience
saying, theyʼre gonna need a whole lot of cosmic Purex for you when the
judgment comes. I forget about the backpack and head for the registers.
Up front, Bobby is now huddling with a covey of assistant managers. Iʼm
thinking they canʼt be up to any good but Iʼm outta here anyway so I just roll by
and into checkout lane eight behind a big woman whoʼs got four twelve packs of

10

Coke up on the belt crowned with a super jumbo bag of potato chips. Should be
a quick check out anyway.
It isnʼt. The womanʼs debit card wonʼt work – apparently thereʼs no money
in the account. She seems to think this is the cashierʼs fault and makes her try it
four times before she fishes a twenty out of a purse thatʼs bigger than Rhode
Island. They finally get that squared away and Iʼm unloading my items when the
intercom – the real one, not the God-o-phone – comes on.
“Attention all associates. Time now for the Walmart cheer.”
My cashier, whoʼs named Patricia just like me, just rolls her eyes.
“Give me a W!”
So this is Bobbyʼs attempt to restore order to his universe. Patricia keeps
her head down and her mouth shut. From elsewhere the response is a faint, “W.”
“Give me an A!”
There is an even fainter responding ʻA.ʼ I got news for you, Bobby. The
universe is not orderly. There are surprises.
“Give me an L!” Only a few voices reply and Patriciaʼs is still not among
them. I notice sheʼs wearing a tiny silver crucifix on a silver chain. A good
answer, I think, to the question What Would Jesus Do?
“Not really into the Walmart cheer, huh?” I ask, just to let her know I see
her.
Patricia looks at me evenly. “Walmartʼs fine. I got no problems working
here. But when they make it into a golden calf or something, I count myself out.”

11

By now only the managers are cheering though not with any zeal:
“Walmart! Walmart! Walmart!”
I slide my credit card through the slot, sign the screen, and hit the Accept
button. Patricia hands me my bags and I head out the exit, thinking Iʼm through
with the Church of Walmart for another week.
But not quite. I pull off the access road onto 302 and see the big Ford 350
again in the next parking lot up the road. Sliding into my own cold pool of selfrighteousness, I am ready to send the truck and its driver, and Walmart, and
Bobby Horner, and Ann at the so-called service desk with her rules and
procedures to some dark circle of hell. As I pass, though, I see the truckʼs driver,
another cigarette dangling, pushing Loretta and her wheelchair across the
blacktop towards the door of the Asian Eden Hunan Restaurant which will be
opening for lunch in about two minutes. Welcome To Paradise reads the banner
over its door. Plenty For Everyone. Wouldnʼt that be nice, I find myself thinking,
and then for no reason Iʼm grinning like the boys with the God-o-phone and I say
out loud, “Amen.”

12


