Peter pretended he felt a tiny heart beat from under the breast feathers
as he smoothed them in place over the mounting wires. “I bet you loved to fly
little tit willow,” he said to the empty room. Peter imagined the five small
passerine bird skins flittering in and out of the display’s madrone branches. He
wired the last feathered sculpture to a branch, then daubed their tiny glass eyes
with spirit glue and pushed them into the empty sockets. His workroom door
opened.
“Tit family, Paridae, I believe,” Dr. Ellison said. “Nice job, Peter. Very
lifelike.”
“Thanks, boss,” Peter said. “I’ve watched cousins of these little guys in
my parent’s backyard.”
“We received a request for information that might be in your area of
interest. I pinned it to the board.” Dr. Ellison said.
“Thanks, I’ll take a look,” Peter said.
Peter locked his collection rooms and set the motion alarm. It was
museum policy. But really, he thought, do we need so much internal security
for 9,000 bird skins? He stopped at the information board by the door.
“Request for Ornithologist with broad knowledge regarding
hummingbirds. Contact: Rebecca@NebraskaFarmProject.com.”

Peter unpinned the note and tucked it in his pocket. I’m twenty-four
years old, living in my parents’ basement, and taking care of dead birds, he
thought. But, I’m an Ornithologist with a job. It had been months since he’d
camped out with his field glasses on the ready.
Every year he and his family travelled to Illinois to attend the annual
meeting of the Wilson Ornithological Society. During his childhood he had
participated in avian species population spotting programs all over the country.
Winged birds of flight were Peter’s passion. Perfect aerodynamic engines of
incredible strength. He could watch them for hours, studying their motions,
habits, and wondering at their intelligence.
He got off the bus a stop early when he saw the young crow swoop down
and up over the roadway. The crow flew ahead of him, landed on a limb, and
looked back at Peter.
“Waiting for me to catch up, are you? I bet you’re the chick I watched
learn to fly?” The crow tipped his head and made a sound, like clicking your
tongue on your palate. It flew a little farther, to another tree, but not out of
sight and repeated the sound. “Sorry buddy, Peter said. “That’s a mating call
and I’m just not your type.” The crow kept Peter’s company all the way to his
house, but even the amorous crow couldn’t erase Peter’s gloom from his long
days with the dead birds.
Peter’s mom was in the kitchen as he headed to his basement. “Hi Honey,
you look tired.”
2

“I’m just tired of dead birds. I’ll get over it.”
“Maybe you shouldn’t,” she said.
Peter opened his e-mail and took the note from his pocket.
“Hi Rebecca,
I am an Ornithologist at the Connecticut Museum of Natural History and
familiar with hummingbirds. Can I be of assistance? Peter Aronsen”
His computer played a tone and a box opened showing that Rebecca was
on line.
Rebecca: “Hello Peter, I am Rebecca Trinnel, with the Nebraska Farm
Project and need information on hummingbirds that can survive in our region.”
Peter: “Nice to meet you, Rebecca. The Rufous Hummingbird and the
Ruby Throated Hummingbird are best for your area. These two are highly
adaptable and increase their insect consumption when other food is scarce.”
Rebecca had avalanche of questions. After they finished emailing in real
time, Peter wrote, “Wow, I have so much swimming in my head right now, I have
more questions than answers. Let me do some research and think about a few
things. I’ll email you with the rest.”
“Sounds good Peter,” she replied. “You’ve given me a lot to think about
too. I look forward to hearing more from you. Rebecca.”

3

It was after midnight before Peter finished e-mailing information to
Rebecca. He lay in his bed feeling charged. That was pretty cutting-edge stuff
she asked me. He closed his eyes, trying to hang onto the experience a little bit
longer.
Three days later, Dr. Ellison walked into Peter’s workroom and said,
“Rebecca Trinnel offered you a job. Something to do with hummingbirds. Oh,
and there’s one more thing, she said if you want the job, you must bring her
five-hundred viable Rufous Hummingbird eggs and five-hundred viable Ruby
Throated Hummingbird eggs and transport them to her facility in Nebraska.”
Peter had heard Dr. Ellison’s words, but they seemed slow to sink in.
Move to Nebraska. Hummingbirds. Five hundred, no, a thousand eggs. Then he
finally internalized the conditions of employment. “What! You can’t buy live
hummingbird eggs. And transport viable eggs, I don’t know if that’s possible.
They incubate in 14 to 16 days, and when they hatch they need food.”
“I told her,” Dr. Ellison laughed. “She only asked you bring viable eggs. If
you do that, you get the job. It sounded crazy to me too, but I know you’d be
happier working with live birds. Rebecca Trinnel is famous for creating largescale ecological systems. There’s a lot of chatter about amazing things she’s
doing in Nebraska. It’s something to think about.”
“You didn’t tell me. What’s the job?” Peter asked.
“I don’t know,” Dr. Ellison said. “I asked, but she wouldn’t tell me. She
said you couldn’t know unless you qualified.”
4

“Qualified?” Peter said.
“I guess that’s the hummingbird eggs part,” Dr. Ellison said. “And I have
no idea how you could make that that work.”
Between excitement over this crazy idea and the near certainty it was
impossible, Peter considered it. Rigging an incubation nest for one-thousand
pea-size eggs needed technology. And, finding the eggs. He felt the same
excitement he’d experienced when he talked with her by email. She pushes me,
challenges me, he thought. I’m going to figure this out.
Leroy was at his workbench when Peter arrived in the museum basement.
His ruddy-jowled face focused on the wood-carving knife he held as he nudged
a groove in the wood held between two clamps.
“Hi Leroy,” Peter said. “Got a minute?”
The deep lines of Leroy’s face crinkled into a smile as he looked up. “A
minute?” he said. “You eggheads never mean a minute. Good think I like
inventing stuff. What do you need?”
“Only the impossible,” Peter said. “I’m trying to figure out how to
transport live pea-size eggs to Nebraska. But I don’t know where their journey
will begin, and I don’t know how long it will take. I do know the eggs are fragile
and they require a stable temperature between 55 and 60 degrees, fahrenheit.”
“Why don’t you know where the eggs are traveling?” Leroy asked.
“Because, I don’t have the eggs.”
5

“I bet you have an idea where you could get them,” Leroy said. He
watched Peter’s mental wheels spin.
“Maybe,” Peter said. “They’re migrating to Illinois for breeding season
right now. The males are preparing the nests now. I do know a group that might
help collect the eggs.”
“Okay,” Leroy said. “How many eggs do you need to transport?” Leroy
said. He picked up a pencil and a pad.
“I’m supposed to bring a thousand eggs,” Peter said.
Leroy whistled.
“That sounds crazy, doesn’t it?”
“Not to the guy who’s been making museum collection gadgets for thirty
years,” Leroy said. “How long do I have?”
“Females are arriving so mating season has already started. The eggs will
be laid in two weeks. Could you come up with a plan in a week?”
“I do my best,” Leroy said.
This was so crazy. But, Leroy hadn’t said no. And, Leroy’s questions
prompted him to formulate what he needed to do next. The Uber driver texted
he was downstairs. Peter raced out of the museum. On his way to airport, he
called Dr. Simon, the Wilson Ornithology Society’s president, requesting an
immediate meeting.

6

Peter smiled at a large Audubon photograph of a hummingbird as he
hurried through the Society’s great room to Dr. Simon’s office.
“Well, this is exciting,” Dr. Simon said. “I don’t think five hundred of each
species will adversely impact the hummingbird population. And, you’re right
Peter, most of our members are in the Chicago area. If they gather the eggs over
a ten-day period, you might have four days to transport them before they begin
to hatch. But, there is no way of knowing exactly when the eggs are laid.
Weather, diet, even an extra predator can disrupt their cycle. But, I’m game for
us to give this a try. If Rebecca Trinnel is involved, you are working on
something remarkable.”
Dr. Simon e-mailed invitations for the members to participate in Peter’s
project, asking anyone interested to gather in the Society’s meeting room
Saturday morning at ten o’clock.
“I’ll help, but you’re going to need to convince the members,” Dr. Simon
said.
Peter had three days to prepare. He knew some of the members would
object to stealing eggs from hummingbird’s nests. Peter googled a search for an
inexpensive motel and was glad he had packed his computer and an overnight
bag. Dr. Simon allowed him to use the Society’s research room as well as the
main printer to create material for the meeting. Moving between the specialized
libraries and internet searches, Peter sifted through information on the impact
of egg removal and the benefit of colonization of birds into new ecosystems. He
7

also did some research on Rebecca Trinnel. It’s going to be hard to convince the
group that Rebecca’s project has legitimacy, when I don’t really know anything
about it, Peter thought.
By Saturday, Peter had created pamphlets, eleven pages long, describing
his project and Rebecca Trinnel’s background, and asking and answering five
questions:
1. Are Rufous hummingbirds a stable population in Chicago, Ill.?
2. Are Ruby Throated hummingbirds a stable population in Chicago, Ill.?
3. What affects flow from the removal of 1,000 eggs?
4. How long will it take for the hummingbird population to recover?
5. Viability for the removed hummingbird eggs?
There were no absolute answers to any of the questions. Just ranges of
possibilities that Peter supported by every fact he could find. It helped that
Rebecca had such a sterling background. She had built new ecosystems in
places he would never have thought possible. Countering extreme
enviornments seemed to be her strength. In the ice, create a cold rain forest. In
the desert, create an oasis. She considered the choices of flora and fauna as the
long-term stabilization device for new ecosystems.
It was nine-thirty on Saturday morning. “What if no one comes,” Peter
said.

8

“I don’t know how many will come,” Dr. Simon said. “But some will, and,
I’m here.”
“Does that mean you’ll help with gathering the eggs?” Peter asked.
“Yes,” Dr. Simon said. “And my wife and at least one of my kids will help.
We’ve already scouted out two nests that look promising and the boys are still
scouting. My wife said these little guys are always mad about something. Now
we’ll give them a reason.”
By ten minutes after ten o’clock, forty-three people had arrived. Peter
described his project and passed out his information pamphlets.
“I can’t believe that Dr. Simon, head of the Wilson Ornithological Society,
is supporting this project,” a woman said. “He’s asking us to steal all the
hummingbird eggs from our own ecosystem,”
Peter started to respond when Dr. Simon put his hand on his shoulder.
“Let me,” he said.
“Hello, Rosemary,” Dr. Simon said. “I not only support Peter’s project, my
family and I will help with the egg collection. Peter correctly explained that he
will be gathering less than one-half of one percent of the estimated number of
live chicks from this season. And, that estimate doesn’t take into consideration
the natural loss of eggs through predators or other misfortunes. We estimate
that thirty percent of the eggs we collect would not survive in nature and have a
better chance with Peter’s project.”

9

“Not even one egg should be removed,” Rosemary declared. “It is our
responsibility to protect them all.” She pelted Dr. Simon with questions for
another twenty minutes, then marched out of the room.
After she left, a man stood up. “I’m Gene Elmhurst and my backyard is
already full of nests,” he said. “I’d be glad to participate.”
Peter was relieved to see the rest of the group had been reading his
information while Dr. Simon handled the stream of challenges from Rosemary.
People begin discussing collection sites and milling around Peter. It looked like
he would have nearly forty people gathering eggs.
“Hi Peter,” a man said. “I run the avian rescue facility in the Monrose Bird
Preserve. I could rig up an incubator for the eggs until you need to transport
them.”
“That would be great,” Peter said. “What’s your name?”
“John Abrams,” he replied. “Here’s my card.”
“I’m glad you spoke up,” Peter said. “I was so busy working on how to
move the eggs and collect them, I forgot that we need a place to incubate them
between gathering and moving.”
Another man discussed a plan to keep the eggs at temperature during
pick up and transport to John’s incubator.
Peter stood at the door as they left. “I’ll be back in four days when the
collection starts,” he said. “Thank you all so much.”
10

“Hi Mom,” Peter said, walking into the kitchen from the basement stairs.
“Good morning Peter,” she said. “You look so happy. Could it be because
this new project involves live birds?”
“It’s all I think about, Mom,” Peter said. “I don’t know if the eggs will
survive the trip, or even if we can gather the thousand, but it’s the most
exciting thing I’ve ever done.”
She gave him a hug. “I’m cheering for you,” she said. “Are you hungry?”
“Starving,” he replied. “My flight got in late last night and I didn’t have
dinner.”
Peter ate a stack of pancakes with syrup and nibbled on a slice of ham
while his mother studied the information packet Peter had prepared for the
Chicago collectors.
“Pretty exciting stuff,” she said. “Why did you come back before the
collection starts?
“Leroy, at the museum, is working on something for me to transport the
eggs to Nebraska,” Peter said. “I’m going there next.”
Taking the bus to the museum was the best transportation method.
Parking was horrible by the museum and only the bigwigs, like Dr. Ellison, had
parking spaces. Peter scanned the route for the crow without success. He’s
probably figured out what the mating call is for, and moved on.

11

Peter saw Leroy at his workbench with a hard leather case. “Hi Leroy,
How’s the project going?”
“That’s all I’ve been doing since you left,” Leroy said. “Your baby bird
carriage is what I’m working on right now. You can help.” He handed Peter a
rubber gasket and a temperature regulator. After watching Leroy fit his gasket
and regulator into one of the two holes drilled into the sides of the tooled
leather suitcase, Peter repeated the process on the other side.
“The inside looks complicated,” Peter said.
“You wanted a traveling incubator for a thousand tiny eggs. And, you
didn’t plan on an omelet.” Leroy lifted the inner layers to show Peter his
invention. “There’s ten pods, and each one has one-hundred pea size
compartments. I used raw silk. It was a bear to get that stuff before the
suppliers turn it into thread. I tried a few other things, but nothing worked as
well with your temperature requirement. There’s thin powder-coated wires
woven through each pod for heat conduction and a non-toxic viscous adhesive
and punctured straws to keep things in place and provide air tubes for
circulation. The extra layer of silk padding around the outer edges keep the
pods from bumping the inside of the case. There’s an extra layer between the
pods, too.”
“This is amazing, Leroy,” Peter said. “A week ago, I thought this was all
impossible. You’re a genius.”

12

“I know,” Leroy said. “But, I still need to calibrate the temperature range
and test this thing. Roll up your sleeves.”
Peter smiled and watched Leroy.
“No, I mean it. Roll up your sleeves,” Leroy said.
Leroy strapped two armbands to Peter’s upper arms. He inserted the
plugs at the ends of the thin cords trailing from Peter’s armbands into the
regulators on the sides of the case.
“Why the armbands?” Peter asked.
“Because, you’re the heater,” Leroy answered.
After a couple hours of testing, Leroy told Peter he wanted to run more
tests before giving him the suitcase. “Can I keep this for forty-eight-hours to
run a longer test on the temperature system?”
“Yes,” Peter said. “The egg collection will take at least that long. I’ll come
back and pick up the case in about seven days. We have ten days to collect
before transport.”
During the airplane ride back to Chicago, Peter worried. What if I can’t
collect and transport the thousand eggs before they hatch? What if we can’t
find enough eggs? What if no one shows up to help me? What if they all die
during the trip to Nebraska? Peter closed his eyes. Stop obsessing. I have so
many people helping me, he thought, drifting into sleep. I haven’t done any of
this alone.
13

Refreshed from his nap, Peter picked up his rental car and drove to John
Abrams bird rescue facility. Dr. Simon was there with six people from the
meeting.
“While you were in Connecticut we set up a system for transporting the
eggs to John’s incubator,” Dr. Simon said. “John asked the science club at the
University to build six small incubators to keep the eggs warm during transport
here.
Peter looked at the tiny inventions. “Twenty pods in each?” he asked.
“Yes,” Dr. Simon said. “These aren’t as stable as John’s incubator. We plan
multiple shuttles for the eggs each day. This group, except for John and myself,
are the drivers. They will transport the eggs to John until we reach our goal.”
“What a great solution!” Peter said. “What can I do?”
“We have enough drivers,” John said. “Why don’t you go with Dr. Simon’s
kids and gather eggs. They’ve searched two parks for nests and mapped over
twenty-three locations.”
“Great,” Peter said. “I can gather for seven days, then I need to return to
Connecticut and collect the traveling incubator that’s still being tested. Is
everyone set to begin the gathering tomorrow morning?”
“We are,” Dr. Simon said.
Dr. Simon’s boys, Louis and Andrew, respectively 13 and 15 years old,
had located seven more nests the day before Peter met them at the first park.
14

“I climbed up and looked into the nest, there,” Andrew pointed to a spot
on the hand drawn map of the park. “It looked like there might be three eggs in
that nest. And, there’s four more nests we found that are really close by.”
“It looks like a great place to start, Andrew,” Peter said. “What do you
think, Louis? Shall we go?”
“Okay,” Louis said. “Can I climb up and get the eggs?”
“You sound pretty confident about climbing,” Peter said. “I brought this
shoulder bag to hold the little incubator. Do you think another pair of hands
would help you get the eggs into the incubator to protect them before you
climb down?”
“Yeah, maybe,” Louis said.
In about two hours they had their twenty eggs and called for their driver
to pick them up and deliver them to John’s incubator. An hour later the driver
returned with an empty incubator, so they could continue collecting.
On the morning of collection day seven, John had seven-hundred and
thirty-six eggs in his incubator. They still needed ninety-four Rufous eggs and
one-hundred and seventy Ruby Throated eggs.
“I’m flying to Connecticut for the transport case,” Peter said. “If
everything is working, I’ll fly back with it tonight, so I can collect with you
during the last two days.”
It was just after one o’clock when Peter reached the museum’s basement.
15

“Hi Leroy,” Peter said. “Did the case test out?”
“Yup. It’s ready to go,” Leroy said. “I hope you get the job, but I’ll miss
you.” Leroy hugged Peter and handed him the suitcase. “Come back sometime
and tell me how the project worked out.”
It took all ten days for Peter and the Chicago members of the Wilson
Ornithological Society to collect the one-thousand eggs. But, it didn’t take
longer.
One-thousand tiny lives rested on his lap. ‘Two weeks ago, I was
suffocating from dead birds,’ Peter thought. The train’s vibrations seemed to be
increasing. Peter pulled up his heels and pressed down the pads of his feet
trying to cushion his tiny charges against the bumps. Lightning flashed across
the flat, desolate plains and Peter lifted the suitcase slightly in preparation for
the thunder. With every clack of the train’s metal wheels, Peter’s excitement
evolved further toward trepidation.
“McCook, Nebraska,” the conductor called as the train stopped.
He stayed in his seat until the conductor opened the door. Clutching the
suitcase, Peter stood on the train’s step and looked over his shoulder. Dark
clouds charged with spears of lightning were churning over the plains. Peter
shivered, but he wasn’t cold. Were they alive, any of them?
The conductor bellowed, “Get on or get off, we need to go!”

16

Peter stepped down. It was day twelve. If they hatched, they would starve
within an hour. A weathered man in a brimmed hat standing by a SUV waved at
Peter.
“Are you Peter Aronsen?” he asked.
“Yes,” Peter answered.
“I’m Randy Sanders,” They shook hands. “I’ll take you to the farm. You’ve
got everybody excited. Our first birds, you know. They’re all waiting for you.”
A mountain of earth rose from the flat landscape in the distance. “Is that
where we’re going?” Peter asked.
“Yup,” Randy said. “You’ve never seen anything like this. Well, for sure
not in Nebraska.”
The mountain was perfectly straight across on the top and grew
exponentially in Peter’s eyes over the twenty-minute drive. Randy drove toward
the center of the mountain’s wall, and Peter wondered whether the project was
somewhere right in front of him. Then he saw the tunnel. Emerging on the
other side of the mountain, Peter felt as if he had left Kansas and arrived in Oz.
It opened into an immense lush garden.
Randy parked the SUV. “Hold on there, bucko,” he said. “Let me get your
door. Don’t want you shaking up the babies.” Peter waited until Randy opened
the door, then stepped out holding the case with both arms.

17

An Amazonian woman in a long scarlet dress stepped out from a group
of people in jumpsuits and strode toward him.
“Hi Peter,” she said. “I’m Rebecca. Let’s attend your hatchlings before we
talk.”
“Okay,” Peter said. He clung to his case as if he was afraid to let them go.
The group of people carried a table over to Peter, set it down and
gathered around him.
“We’re ready, Peter. Open it,” Rebecca said.
Peter laid the case on the table and opened it. Humming and cooing came
from the people in jumpsuits as they examined the eggs. Only nine chicks had
broken their shells to die of starvation. Rebecca stood with Peter as he watched
his tiny eggs leave with the group to find their incubators.
Rebecca hugged Peter. “I’m so glad you’re here. Great innovation with
finding and bringing the hummingbirds.”
“I had a lot of help,” Peter said. Her hug helped calm him down. He had
never done anything so stressful, so important. This wasn’t posing tit willow
bird skins on wire. This mattered.
“Of course,” Rebecca said. “No one could have done this alone. That was
part of the test. Come with me, I’ll show you around.”

18

Peter’s window looked out over the man-made square valley with a wall
on the fourth side.
“Rebecca, how big is this place?” Peter asked.
“This section is one square mile, or 640 acres.”
“And you did all this in three years,” Peter said.
A curious low chuckle came from Rebecca. “Come on birdie papa, watch
your fledglings hatch.”
Twenty nests appeared on the monitors. They were hatching fast. Peter
thought half of the hummingbirds would die during hand feeding. Only four
died. Then he looked back out the window at the one acre and realized his
hummingbirds needed more space as adults, at least two acres. Hummingbirds
were famous for aggression toward their own kind if they didn’t have sufficient
territory. He texted Rebecca who texted back, “Don’t worry.”
After five weeks of hovering over the eggs, tending their nests and hand
feeding the fledglings with eye droppers, Rebecca took Peter to the shuttle that
ran on a light rail system. “Our project is four square miles divided into four
sections by moveable walls. Today, all the section walls are open.”
They rode to the “Mile 2” signpost and walked into a meadow.
“Now,” Rebecca said into her cellphone.

19

Nine-hundred and eighty-seven clumsy baby hummingbirds filled four
square miles of sky.
Peter sat down, looking up. Tears rolled out of his eyes. Rebecca sat with
him.
“Good job. What other birds do you suggest?”

20


