Fashion Barn owner June Dimza readily consented to loan out her twin female mannequins,
‘Ida’ and ‘Irene’, for a makeover contest. The twins had been on display unchanged since “plastic
was invented and molded,” according to an affable Barn patron.
“Can’t hurt business. Might help it some,” June told the contest promoters as she cranked
up the volume of her brown Panasonic radio on the counter.
“Two local luminaries are vying in the Mannequin Makeover Contest this Saturday, August 8
at 3:00pm at St. Stanislaus School. The contestants are undertaker Wilbur Probst of Eternal TimeShare, LLC and beautician Loretta Mabry of Becoming Coiffures. Welcome to the program,” the
AM radio interviewer’s voice broadcasted.
June and others stared at the sound-emitting relic, ready for whatever amiable, on-air
sparring lay ahead.
“You all know Loretta’s professed motto, ‘If your hair is not becoming to you, you should
be coming to me!’ ” The interviewer shuffled his notes. “And you know Wilbur’s impeccable
reputation for providing ‘dignified, compassionate internment of a loved one.’ ”
“When it’s time for me to depart this world, I’m leaving all arrangements to Wilbur.” She
blushed across the table from her opponent.
“There’s none better than Loretta Mabry for sprucing up for those special occasions of the
living populace—birthdays, proms, weddings and the like,” Wilbur returned with a whimsical glance.
“Of course, listeners, you know that with all that freezer space at Eternal Time-Share,
Wilbur does a brisk business processing steaks and sausage during gun deer season. It goes within
saying he’s a great taxidermist, too!” the interviewed plugged.
“Wilbur, isn’t having all those cadavers lying around unnerving?” Loretta chirped gaily into
the microphone.
“Not in the least, Loretta. But isn’t it curious that Becoming Coiffures patrons return over
and over again? Mine never do,” Wilbur quipped.
“Obviously, Wilbur, your Eternal Time-Share clients don’t return at all, or do they?” Loretta
countered with a twinkle in her eye.
“Boo!” Wilbur grinned and wiggled ghost fingers at her. Laughing, she returned the gesture
brushing his extended fingertips.


“Those of you out there in radio land can weigh in on Saturday,” the interviewer broke in.
“Who will it be? Come see for yourself which doll wins, Loretta’s or Wilbur’s.”
Wilbur nodded affably, giving Loretta and the interviewer a thumbs-up.
“Listeners, you’ve been enjoying guests Loretta Mabry and Wilbur Probst,” the interviewer
continued. “Remember the Mannequin Makeover Contest is this Saturday, August 8 at 3:00pm at St.
Stanislaus School. Free and open to the public, so bring the family and cheer your favorite Fashion
Barn doll. Mademoiselle Ida or Mademoiselle Irene!”
After the radio banter, the next day June decided to visit her friends Loretta and Wilbur
individually over coffee.
“You know, Loretta, Wilbur is only three years older than you, single and available—a very
handsome, thirty-two year old bachelor. Financially secure. A fine catch. Wasn’t he high school
valedictorian? Exceptionally bright. Witty, too.” Pausing to sip her coffee, June observed an
encouraging blush.
“He needs a woman, Loretta, to make a home and family. Why not you? At six foot three
topped with that distinguished piebald and those elegant suits, why, he’s any girl’s dream.” Loretta’s
hint of a smile glowed through wisps of latte vapor.
“Wilbur told me he reads voraciously. Poor man, what else is there for him to do during
long, lonely nights?” After another sip Loretta felt warm all over.
“Wilbur’s not as athletic as some, but he’s toned and keeps himself clean and neat. Have you
ever noticed that wonderful citrus-musk aftershave? And so courteous. Everyone says, ‘Wilbur
planned such a nice ceremony, very respectful with professional and personal attention to every
detail.’ His funeral services are simply the best.” A waitress refilled their cups.
“And, Loretta, I’m sure you know he likes you.”
“Likes me?”
“I asked him about you. He caught his breath and flushed like a schoolboy,” June winked.
Loretta fluttered. “Look at the time. I’ve got to run. It’s been nice visiting with you.”
June directed her path across the square to the café where Wilbur Probst lunched routinely
during the workweek. Sitting in his usual corner two-top secluded behind an opened newspaper, she
spotted him. Without a word, she sat down in the vacant chair opposite. Wilbur peered over the
paper.
“Well, June, breaking out of the Barn?” he asked politely. “Are your mannequins ready and
willing for their big day?”
2

Mannequin Makeover

“I shook the mothballs out of their pockets this morning. I admit it’s been awhile since they
were touted and painted up. They’ll get the royal treatment from you and Loretta.”
“We’ll try our best. I’m looking forward to it.”
“So is Loretta. She’s excited about being on stage with you, Wilbur.” He folded the paper.
“Considering all the guys swooning over her, I’d say that’s a nice compliment she’s paid you. So
pretty and petite with that cute, stylish cut in the latest trend. Fine complexion and beautiful blue
eyes, too, don’t you think?”
Wilbur looked intently at June.
“Most important, of course, is Loretta’s outgoing, friendly nature. Weren’t you two in high
school together? I heard lots of fellows chased after her, but I guess she just hasn’t found that
special someone yet, Wilbur.” June watched a lump in his throat bob up then descend as he adjusted
his tie.
“Loretta is a happy, carefree sort. I think she clings to hope for a secret admirer.”
“Secret admirer?” Wilbur echoed.
“Yes, and meanwhile, she swims and plays tennis to stay trim. I wonder if it’s sun highlights
or platinum frosting in that lovely golden hair? Dates young men only to pass time. Otherwise, she
keeps busy with her salon business. Works wonders transforming some of those toads. Well, that’s
another story. They go to her mainly to relax and feel happy for an hour or two, just like lying in a
hammock filled with jasmine and gardenias. Anyhow, she’s lovely, don’t you think, Wilbur?”
He nodded as the image swung gently in a far away glade. Satisfied, June stood and patted
him on the shoulder.
“Until Saturday then, Wilbur, good-bye.”
*

*

*

*

*

*

The celebrated day soon arrived. June had transported the twins in the bed of her pickup to
the school venue the night before, along with Fashion Barn flyers containing discount coupons for
the big “Mannequin Makeover Contest” weekend sale. She taped the flyers all over the school
grounds and placed them on the seats of the metal chairs set up in the school cafeteria. Around
noon, not a few event goers commenced pre-fueling at the local watering hole, the Pint of No
Return. As the inquisitive throng made its way into the makeshift theater, the audience pocketed the
flyers and observed the two contestants on stage, seated on a portable dais.
A panel of three impartial judges, assembled at a table under a disco ball to the left of the
stage, presided to pass judgment. The magistrate bench consisted of the indomitable president of the
3

Mannequin Makeover

local Daughters of the American Revolution, a young female high school chemistry teacher and girls
cheerleading advisor, and the venerable county sheriff with greying temples and hearing loss.
“Welcome, friends and neighbors,” the DAR president announced. “On behalf of the
nominating committee, I’d like to thank our contestants, Loretta Mabry and Wilbur Probst, as well
as June Dimza for loaning the mannequins as well as Principal Cindy Brilowski for the use of the
school cafeteria. Now, the first order of business is to draw names to pair up our contestants with
their designated dolls.”
Drawing names from a hat, Loretta was coupled with blue-eyed brunette Irene, and Wilbur
with green-eyed blond Ida. The two contestants smiled at each other and the audience. The gathered
crowd cheered their respective choices. Many placed their bets, which were held by pious Norbert.
“From start to finish the allotted contest time will be one hour, including makeover and
dress up,” the president continued. “Given her bingo calling experience, June over there is the
official timekeeper.”
The bubbly chemist said, “Contestants may select clothing and accessory items—none of
which are duplicated—from the fashion table at any time within the duration of the contest. Each
contestant has identical sets of makeover equipment and products.”
Under the arms of two Eagle scouts in uniform, both naked dolls were toted onto stage and
placed supine on top of operating tables. White sheets were quickly draped over each mannequin
leaving only their heads exposed to the craning audience. Wigs of wild, stringy hair glued to their
domes incited a collective gasp from attendees. Nearby tables were heaped with women’s clothes,
fashion jewelry, shoes and stockings, handbags, and other apparel and accouterments June made
available.
Wilbur and Loretta stood at makeover stations identically equipped with portable
shampooing basins, handheld hairdryers and curling irons, and arrays of cosmetic paraphernalia and
products including brushes, scissors, combs, dyes, sprays, creams, eyeliners, blushes, lipsticks and
more. All items were donated from catalog purchases via cookie and baked goods sales by the high
school 4-H club, which was acknowledged with a boom from the DAR president.
The sheriff rose as if rounding up a posse.
“When I ring this here cowbell, the clock starts. We’re ready for some real plastic surgery!”
As he lofted the cowbell above his head, the packed schoolhouse cafeteria brimmed with
anticipation.

4

Mannequin Makeover

“Let the mayhem... I mean contest... commence, sheriff!” someone cried out to laughs as
everyone leaned forward, pressing nearer the stage.
The cowbell rang ‘Go!’ to screams of encouragement from the large, vociferous crowd
behind the judges’ bench. Boisterous foot stomping and jumping to support their respective
contenders ensued. In the contestants’ frenzied blur of motion around Ida and Irene, excitement
mounted with each tick of the clock. After whipping the sheet from Ida’s plastic torso, the fastidious
Wilbur sprinted to the clothing table and tore through the pile searching for something conservative,
but with a splash of flair.
“Not that horrid navy polka dot thing, Wilbur!” someone shouted. “My grandmother wears
that sort!”
“He’s goin’ to bury her, so what’s the difference?” one of Loretta’s backers hollered.
“Use that blue feather boa, Wilbur, to match Ida’s stone cold face and hair color after she
DYYYEEES on stage!” another happy heckler croaked.
Wilbur ignored the volley from advice givers as he rifled through the clothing. To nodding
affirmations, he selected a smart, Kelly green woman’s suit with contrasting impala tan lapels and
shoulder epaulettes with matching pleated skirt, ivory silk blouse, slip, and stockings, black leather
high heels and purse. Quickly to the fashion jewelry section, he chose a stylish pearl choker, gold
earrings with dangling gilded peacocks festooned with bluish green and purple stones, faux emerald
ring set in gold, and simple gold bangles. Placing the items on a food tray, he hurried back to the
waiting Ida and prepared to clean her hair and face gently with a warm, soapy sponge.
Nonplussed, Loretta had thrust Irene’s head into a washbasin for a shampoo and rinse.
Wrapping Irene’s wet hair in a towel, Loretta affixed false eyelashes and eyebrows, then started
adhering ruby nail enhancements to Irene’s fingers and thumbs. She would touched them up with
tiny gold stars later, and add hair extensions with platinum highlights.
“Frankenstein would run away screaming at a glimpse of her!” another heckler chortled.
“She’s gorgeous, Loretta, dear!” an Irene fan contradicted.
Both contestants continued blow-drying and hair-styling, spray-tinting the skin as they
deemed necessary, applying facial foundation and makeup, whitening teeth, and finishing nail
polishing. After completing the cosmetics, Loretta raced to the table to pick out an ensemble for
Irene. Flowing metallic silver V-neck gown with delicate scarlet hem and sash, matching scarletsequenced pumps and purse, full-length white slip, sheer flesh-tone pantyhose, silver crescent moon
earrings with pearl drops, bracelet of false rubies set in silver, and silver tiara. With just three
5

Mannequin Makeover

minutes remaining, Wilbur completed Ida’s makeover and began outfitting her and adorning jewelry
with formal efficiency. Loretta, back at Irene’s side, expertly fitted her doll into her gown, pinning
up the fabric for a perfect fit.
Performing truly sublime transformations of the twins’ appearances to rapturous roars of
admiration, the makeover artists administered finishing touches to the now exquisite mannequins.
Even the judges, wide-eyed with approval, could not help emitting ‘oohhs and aahhs’.
Just before June signaled the sheriff to sound ‘Stop!’ with his cowbell, Loretta sat Irene on
her knee ventriloquizing loudly and smiling gaily before the judging panel, “Vote for Irene! Vote for
me!”
Stunned by this flagrant outburst, Wilbur hoisted Ida onto his shoulder, rushed in front of
Loretta and Irene, and boomed, “Not on your life, dummy! Ida’s your choice!”
Enervated by the passion of the moment their competitive juices washed over a feverish
audience. With a wild-eyed shriek, Loretta grabbed Irene by the ankles and wheeled, slamming Ida
off her perch with a swinging head butt. Horrified and enraged, Wilbur picked Ida up off the floor,
quickly smoothing her bouffant with opened palms. Then gripping her at the hips and tilting her
forward like a lance he lunged, thrusting Ida’s head into Loretta’s midrib. With the wind knocked
out of her, Loretta was laid flat face up with pretty Irene mounted akimbo on top of her. Letting fly
a gasping squeal she recovered with an adroit maneuver resembling a wrestling escape to the
‘bottom man’ position on hands and knees, avoiding being pinned.
“One point for Loretta!” the incredulous crowd erupted.
Panting and foaming like a crazed bull at a rodeo, she bawled, rolling her red eyes and
bucking. Irene rode bareback with legs splayed over Loretta’s ribcage and arms flailing. She bumped
and jolted aloft, looking like an adept, chic bull rider waving and smiling to delirious yodelers.
Meanwhile, Wilbur panicked. He threw Ida like a human cannonball at Irene, knocking her
from her vaulted position above snorting Loretta. Franticly, he barreled over the tattered twins,
grasping Loretta in a bear hug.
“Now I’ve got you!”
Like everyone else, the judges leapt to their feet in disbelief of the tumultuous event
unfolding before them. “Decorum, decorum, please!”
“Let go of me, oaf!” Loretta brayed into Wilbur’s sweating face, his jaw back with both
hands. “You brute!”

6

Mannequin Makeover

Pandemonium erupted, as unhinged supporters stormed the platform, wrestling contestants
and mannequins alike in a dog pile of flying elbows and knees. In the mêlée, deranged warriors from
each camp locked chokeholds on the twins’ heads. With a primitive roar, they twisted the disfigured
skulls from their torsos like popping champagne corks. The decapitated heads were sent rolling
backstage as rouged, blinking gargoyles. They fell unceremoniously—thump, thump—like cabbages
on the linoleum by the stainless steel food serving counters by the kitchen. Taking this riotous
development as a cue, the sheriff sprang to separate the hair-pulling, obscenity-shouting beautician
and mortician, who had locked horns in death grips. Silencing the mob with a piercing cry, the
sheriff shouted.
“STOP! Don’t make me ring my cowbell again! Retrieve those two heads from the food line
now!”
Cradling them in the crooks of her elbows, Principal Brilowski presented Irene and Ida’s
bruised and battered heads, with matted or missing-hair, grotesquely smeared lipstick, and dangling
bits of eyelashes and clothing, to the judges.
“My lovely girls are shattered!” June cried.
“Still smiling though with real fortitude,” the DAR president observed.
The spent, bewildered crowd caught its breath in dazed anticipation of what the judges
might say.
“Foul play,” one bettor whispered aloud.
“But who wins?” another wondered.
“The Fashion Barn just won’t be the same without those twin mannequins in the front
window,” a patron lamented.
After a brief consultation, the chemistry teacher served as panel spokesperson. She delivered
the verdict in a calming voice with solemnity restored.
“By virtue of balance and poise under pressure, the panel has decided Irene wins the talent
category. With her yet coy, captivating smile throughout the ordeal, Ida wins the beauty category.”
The onlookers stood silent, as the judged huddled again.
Interrupting an announcement that the judging panel was at loggerheads on which
contestant would be proclaimed congeniality category winner, June spoke up.
“For obvious reasons, no award for congeniality should be made. And the two rogue
contestants must make full restoration of my damaged dolls!”
Sagely, the sheriff offered, “Lets all retire to the Pint to deliberate. Winners pay!”
7

Mannequin Makeover

The thirsty bystanders embraced the wisdom of his words, marching out immediately. They
soon packed the tavern down the street across from Deacon Norbert’s Baptist Church.
*

*

*

*

*

*

In the emptied cafeteria, Loretta and Wilbur sat in silence looking at the floor in opposite
directions, baffled and alone except for June. Holding the Ida and Irene’s craniums, June
approached them soundlessly and sat in between the dazed couple.
“The flare-up’s over, lovebirds,” she said. “Time to make up and makeover my
mannequins.” Taking his hands from his forehead, Wilbur accepted the two heads from June into
his lap and stared at them. After a long silence, he spoke in a soft voice.
“Loretta, I don’t know what got into me. My behavior was appalling I’m embarrassed to say.
I ask your forgiveness.”
June softly raised Loretta's chin, then gently lifted Loretta's hands and placed them into
Wilbur's.
“It was all my fault, Wilbur, spouting off like that,” Loretta said looking into his eyes. “I lost
my head, too. I’m so sorry, Wilbur.”
A sensation of his tender touch stifled a sob.
“Making up after a lovers' spat is often sweeter than the courtship,” June offered. Loretta
raised her eyes to Wilbur’s, melting away any remnant sorrow, dissipating any wisps of lingering
doubt. Timid smiles softened their faces.
“Don’t forget about fixing Ida and Irene when I leave you two for the Pint. After all,
reattaching decapitated heads of car accident victims for open casket viewing is Wilbur’s specialty,”
June said over her shoulder as she left.
Collecting the twins’ body parts and gathering an assortment of equipment and supplies
needed, they walked over to the operating tables. Together they started the dolls’ makeovers again.
“I confess I’m your secret admirer, Loretta,” Wilbur said, as he stitched the heads back to
the torsos.
“You are indeed, Wilbur,” Loretta replied, as she removed any trace of blemishes. “And I’m
your secret admirer, too. It’s a nice feeling, isn’t it, Wilbur? No secret any longer.”
They applied just the right cosmetics selected specifically for each twin, and then dressed
them in tasteful clothes and distinctive accessories. Loretta finished the twins’ hair extensions and
individual styling in stunningly beautiful fashions. The world had never seen more exquisite dolls
than Ida and Irene.
8

Mannequin Makeover

Carrying the twins carefully under each of their outer arms, Wilbur and Loretta walked arm
in arm to the tavern and through the door.
“You know, there's no going back now, Loretta, you're mine.”
“Oh, Wilbur.”
Upon seeing the reconciled contestants and the gorgeous mannequins in exquisite
restoration, raucous cheers welcomed them. The twins were seated at a table where the sheriff and
DAR president were enjoying each other’s close company. June, who had scrawled dozens of names
on a pile of cocktail napkins, burst into tears of joy upon seeing Ida and Irene.
“My girls will be lovely bridesmaids! Here’s the wedding guest list,” June said, stuffing the
napkins into Wilbur’s jacket chest pocket.
“May you two makeover your life together,” the DAR president toasted, “helping each
other touch up any rough spots now and then.”
“Here’s how!” The wedding invitees quaffed their drinks.
“Madame President, I swear those two ladies just winked at me!” the sheriff stammered.
“Better cut him off, Norbert, or he'll be spending the night sleeping it off in his place of
business again.” Ignoring the comment, the sheriff stood and bowed formally, addressing the twins
seated at his table.
“May I have the honor of buying you lovely women a drink?”
They smiled demurely.
“Mum's the word, Sheriff.”
✧

9


