A new morning awoke and the forest birds chirped and sang in the canopies
while the sun poked its head out from the brown earth below. The sky
silhouetted beautiful shades of orange and yellow on the forest floor and the
wind blew gently through the trees, whose leaves glistened in the light of the
rising sun. It was on this day that a very special moment took place on one of
these leaves. A little white egg was ready to hatch, and with it, a new life would
emerge and see the world for the very first time.

The egg glistened in the sunlight and wobbled in anticipation, while the eggs
proud but nervous mother protected it from falling with her large white wings.
The sun looked down at the leaf with amusement and showered it with light to
soften the eggs shell; the egg wiggled slowly, reacting to the sunlight, and soon
a tiny antenna popped out. The sun brightened its rays and then a second
antenna poked out. The white butterfly leaned towards the now hatched egg
with delight and looked closely at her child's eyes; they were a soft sky blue. The
newborn caterpillar inched slowly out of its egg, covered in sticky slime, and
crawled instinctively into its mothers open wings. "You begin your new life today
little one" she said with a smile. "I'm going to call you..." she paused, "Navin.
Yes, that is a beautiful name, isn’t it? It means new." A look of approval spread
over the sun’s face before it returned to sharing its warmth with the rest of the
forest. Navin curled up into a tiny ball at the sound of his new name, and gently
drifted into his very first sleep.

The little caterpillar grew in size quickly and everyday he became more and more
curious about the world around him. One morning Navin and his friends were
hungry, and so they set out to look for some leaves to eat. The caterpillars
crawled along a spiny branch and came to an immediate halt when they found a
gigantic leaf, which they immediately started munching on. !While the caterpillars
were filling their bellies a majestic butterfly swooped above them and perched

delicately on to a small twig; the beauty of its vibrantly coloured wings twinkled
in each of the caterpillar’s envious eyes. !“One of these days we’ll turn into one of
those pretty flying things” said one of the entranced caterpillars, his eyes glued
to the marvelous creature. !“It’s true!” cried another caterpillar, “My mother
turned into a butterfly and she’s the prettiest butterfly in the forest!”
!“Same with mine!”!
"Mine too!" called out the other two caterpillars. Navin took one last look at the
butterfly nestled above him and told himself that no matter what he would
become the most colourful butterfly to ever live.! A smile swept over his face as
he thought this and everyone went back to nibbling on the leaf until the sun fell
asleep and it was time to wriggle back home.

After a few long days of climbing up the tree, crawling along its branches to eat
leaves and then returning home to sleep, Navin noticed that the other
caterpillars were getting significantly fatter. Navin wondered anxiously why his
friends were getting fat while he remained small and thin, “I eat just as much as
them…” he thought. The next day Navin journeyed to the big leaf only to find
none of his caterpillar friends wiggling about. He turned around and inspected
the branch hoping to spot them. A tear formed at his cheek and splashed on the
bark floor when he saw the four cocoons hanging in the treetop. Navin went
back to the leaf and ate by himself until it was time to go home; he couldn’t get
to sleep that night.

Navin was exhausted when he woke up as he had spent the whole night
squirming and shuffling in bed. He was so worried about not turning into a
cocoon that he decided he would climb up to one of the higher branches and
seek help from some of the older caterpillars. The worried caterpillar yelped
frantically to the others, “Help me! All my friends are cocoons and I haven’t
changed yet!” !The other caterpillars huddled up in a circle and whispered
amongst themselves. The biggest caterpillar moved towards Navin, “Alright,
we’ll help you, but only on the condition that you do everything we say.”!
“Yes, anything, please!” replied Navin.
	  

2	  

!“Ok. Well a friend of a friend was in the exact same situation as you once upon a
time, and what he did was hang upside down on a branch all day until he turned
into a cocoon!”!
“Ahh, why didn’t I think of that?” Navin beamed. The apple green caterpillar
wiggled as fast as he could, which was not fast at all, to the end of the branch
and looked down. !It was quite a drop and there was a chance he could fall and
hurt himself, but Navin wanted to turn into a butterfly so badly that he would risk
anything to do it, and so he crawled along the branch and hung upside down
from it. “I’m feeling a bit light headed,” he groaned.
“Do you want to turn into a butterfly or not?” smirked the big caterpillar, who
went back to nibbling on the leaf. A long time passed and the sun had begun to
sink into the earth. Navin, who was still hanging upside down, could not feel his
antennas and thought it was a sign he was transforming into a cocoon. !“I feel it!”
he cried. “Hey fellas, I’m transforming! I can feel it in my gut!” !Navin closed his
eyes and tensed his tiny body in an attempt to fasten the process; he could feel
it coming now, any second. Navin opened his mouth and all that came out was
vomit, he plummeted off the branch and fell head first onto the branch below
him. Navin looked up to see a group of blurry caterpillars spinning and
snickering amongst themselves. “I can’t believe he actually listened to us!”
“Yeah, what a dumb caterpillar!” The treetops were filled with laughter.

Dizzy and depressed, Navin made his way home. “Mum, I can’t turn into a
butterfly… What’s wrong with me?” A tear formed and ran down his cheek.
Navin’s mother looked down at her son and swallowed her breath. She began
to speak softly, "Little one, you have to be patient, becoming a butterfly is
something that will happen to you when you are ready." Navin looked up at his
mother attentively. The butterfly struggled for words, "In the mean time just enjoy
being a caterpillar, your time will come soon enough" Navin’s eyes sunk to the
floor. "But all my friends are butterflies and... and" he stuttered. !"You can always
make new friends, Navin", his mother suggested. !"I guess so” he said,
unconvinced.

	  

3	  

Navin lay on his bed and stared at the moon outside, its soft white glow stirred
his imagination and soon he was flapping his wings and fluttering towards its
inviting light. Navin's eyes were fixated on the moon as he flew towards it. With
each breath the moon got bigger, and he got closer towards it. Navin’s flight
was disrupted when a flash of thunder violently struck the night sky and
snapped him out of his dream. The sky moaned in pain and showered blades of
water in retaliation. The rain continued aggressively and soon a thick mist
covered the moon’s glow. No sleep visited Navin's eyes that night.

Eventually the sun woke up from the earth's belly, and when it did it stretched its
arms and let out a big yawn, which woke up most of the forest's critters. The
birds were the first to greet the new day; they sang their morning songs while
the wind whistled in unison. Beams of playful orange light shone through Navin's
window and danced on the foot of his bed. A little blue bird with a plum shaped
body glided into Navin's room and landed carefully on his windowsill. The bird
scrunched up its feathers and darted its eyes left and right, it then relaxed and
let out a beautiful song, its notes sustaining into the cool morning air. Navin's
eyes widened as he gazed at the bird and listened to the melody that was
pouring out of its beak, hoping it would last forever. The bird paused for a
moment to scratch its feathers, and Navin, thinking that the bird had finished its
song, clapped his hands in admiration. In a flash the fruit shaped bird tensed its
wings and took off towards the open sky. Navin wiggled as fast as he could to
the open window and glanced out, desperate to catch the bird with his eyes.

Suddenly, a cool wind blew inside, and with it came news from a far away place.
The wind spoke to Navin about a story that he was passing through the forest’s
many trees - a story of a caterpillar that had attained a state beyond butterfly.
"This caterpillar" the wind said, "has woken up for the very first time, and sees
the world for what it really is!" The wind sounded very excited. Navin looked at
the wind dumbly and wondered how anything could be greater than being a
butterfly, he pictured the butterfly he had seen with his friends, and he desired
that form, that beauty, with all his heart.
	  

4	  

The cool wind circled the room and managed a warm smile. "From what I have
heard on my travels, much can be learned from this wise caterpillar.” Navin
frowned, not forgetting the trick that had been played on him earlier, "I don't
need some stupid caterpillar to teach me anything.” He turned his attention
away from the wind and continued to scan the still sky outside his window. "This
caterpillar's teachings have caused quite a stir in the forest," the wind persisted.
"I know for sure that the blue bird you scared away will be on her way to see
him," the wind winked and Navin's eyes brightened, but he hid them. The wind
wished Navin well and reunited with the air outside. Navin continued to look out
the window and thought privately about the blue bird and its song, which only
remained as a faded memory.

The sun retreated back into the earth - as it did at the conclusion of every day and allowed the moon's glow to light the sky in its place; spiky shadows cast off
all the tree branches and zigzagged across the forest floor. A light drizzle of rain
emptied out of the night sky. Under a small mango tree, somewhere in the
dense forest, the Buddhapillar meditated patiently. His companions, two little
brown caterpillars, sat next to him, hungry for more wisdom to part his lips. The
Buddhapillar, who was in the deepest state of meditation, gently touched the
earth with his hand - a thunderclap broke the night’s silence and the entire
forest floor trembled. Day or night, sun or rain, he thought, it is all the same. All
is one. A smile swept across his face and he gently opened his eyes, seeing the
world in a completely new light. Both the sky and earth knew that at that very
moment the Buddhapillar had woken up; the moon peered at him through a
silky veil of mist, and smiled.

!The sun pried Navin's eyes open with its bright rays of light and forced the new
day upon him; he rolled over in his bed and groaned. The birds chirped and
whistled outside, as they did every morning, but Navin ignored them, he grew
impatient with life's routine. "Why should I get out of bed and face this day?” he
thought, “When it is exactly like every other day?" Many days like this had
passed since the great disappearing act of his caterpillar friends. Now their
	  

5	  

empty cocoons remained in the treetops as painful reminders that they have
moved on with their new life, leaving Navin behind.
Navin climbed out of bed and peered out his window, desperate to catch a
glimmer of hope in this new day. Navin dreamed of finding something so
exciting that it would relight the flame that once burned so passionately inside
him. No matter how many leaves Navin ate he would still be hungry; his soul
starved for something more substantial. A golden leaf fell from a tree above and
dropped past Navin's window. He watched carefully as the leaf danced in the
sky, floating effortlessly with the wind and offering no resistance, yet moving
unpredictably as though it were following its own path. Navin slumped away
from the window, sighed deeply, and feeling hungry, made his way to the leaves
outside.

The sky was a curious shade of orange this morning, and the leaves were
beginning to fall. Navin decided against climbing to the safety of the tree leaf
today and instead thought he would wander the forest floor in search of
something new. He remembered that the forest was a large place and knew he
would find excitement somewhere in its depths. As Navin walked towards the
door a voice boomed from behind, “Where are you going, little one?" It was
Navin's worried mother.
"Outside."
!"But it's dangerous outside,"! she countered,
"But it's boring inside," Navin answered back. !
"Yes… but I need to be able to see you while you are eating, and I can't see you
if you're roaming around the forest by yourself," she paused for a moment. "Eat
the leaves on the nearby branches if you are hungry."

Navin wiggled to the door, opened it, and called out loudly to his mother "I'll be
safe. Don't worry about me!" The butterfly swooped through the door and
landed in front of her naive son. "You could get eaten Navin," she said sharply.
"Eaten?" he repeated. "By a leaf?"!
"No, by a bird. Bird's eat caterpillars." A cold shiver rushed up Navin's spine.
	  

6	  

"Birds would never do that!" he shouted.
"Yes they would, there's a lot I haven't told you about the forest I’m afraid.”

Navin looked out into the forest and it appeared to change shape. In an instant
his perception of it had transformed from a place of mystery and adventure, to a
place of threat. Birds hovered in the orange sky, scanning for food. Feeling
defeated Navin wiggled back towards the door. This was Navin's first taste of
danger, his realisation that the forest wasn't always a safe place, and that he
was not indestructible. Navin shrugged and turned around. “Good boy," his
mother said cheerily as she hovered back inside. Navin stood at the edge of the
door and stole another glance at the forest; suddenly he remembered the blue
bird. Navin closed his eyes and thought about the bird's beautiful song. He
wondered how something so beautiful could exist in such an evil place. A cluster
of birds circled the tangerine sky, two of them descended on a spiny tree
branch and cooed gently.

Navin turned his head and looked at his mother, who was floating gracefully
above the kitchen sink. Her eyes twinkled from the sunlight crashing through the
windows, and for a moment Navin missed her hugely, even though she was
right there in front of him. He did not know that this would be the last time he
saw her face. Navin took a deep breath and shut the door quietly behind him.
On the other side of the closed door he heard his mother let out a gigantic
sneeze. The sound echoed and rustled the forest trees, which caused a family
of tiny squirrels to scatter into the darkness, it also made Navin laugh. The
snickering caterpillar was soon interrupted by the sound of his gurgling
stomach, and so he unknowingly set tail on his adventure into the forest that he
would never return from. Navin told himself he was looking for a new leaf to
nibble on and would be back before sundown, but deep down he knew he was
looking for something else. Somewhere in the forest, under a wet mango tree,
the Buddhapillar made a silly face; his two caterpillar disciples laughed and
laughed until tears of joy streamed down their brown cheeks.

	  

7	  

Navin travelled great distances in the mysterious sea of green - he saw giant
boulders, fallen cocoons, mighty ant warriors and towering blades of grass - he
must have passed at least five trees, Navin thought. He had never seen trees
from the ground up before; they stood like gods reaching their arms into the sky.
When the wind blew, their long branches waved and it looked like they were
saying hello. The sun began its slow descent when Navin finally decided to stop
and rest, and so he leaned his back against a large and strangely soft rock to
catch his breath. Just as he was beginning to relax Navin was nudged by
something slimy. The caterpillar jumped backwards and froze at what he saw hundreds of white, ghost like caterpillars devouring what appeared to be a
broken insect.

Navin was stunned, he didn't know whether to squirm away in fear or surrender
to these ghoulish creatures. Somehow the question "Who… are you?" escaped
his trembling lips. The ghost caterpillars turned their heads and looked at the
small caterpillar smilingly. "We're maggots," they all sang in unison. Navin had
never seen maggots before in his life, and so he did not know a thing about
them, except that they looked like scary ghosts. "What happened here?" Navin
stuttered, "Why are you eating that poor bug?" The maggot’s eyes, which were
still looking at Navin, glowed in anticipation of the approaching night. They
stared at him blankly for a moment and then returned to eating. One of the
maggots kept his eyes on Navin and whispered to him, so as to not disturb his
feasting friends, "This insect died, and now we are eating it, would you like
some?" The smell made Navin sick, he felt like throwing up but bravely held it in.
Before he could answer the maggots dropped off the dead insect to reveal its
ruined body; every scrap of its shell and flesh had been eaten, leaving only a
mangled carcass behind.

The maggots crawled away in single file, looking to scavenge another meal.
Navin watched in horror as ants rushed over to finish off the poor insect corpse.
The ants swarmed the carcass and tore it apart into tiny little pieces, which they
then each carried on their shoulders before scuttling off into the darkness. Ants,
	  

8	  

he would one day learn, lived in the trillions and dedicated every second of their
day towards protecting and honouring their beloved Queen. The ants scurried
around the forest day and night to bring scraps of food to her, and would even
fight living insects much bigger than they were - frightening creatures like giant
spiders and centipedes - in order to get the food back safely. The smaller ants
would stand on top of each other’s heads and turn themselves into big walls to
protect her, and they would tell her that she didn't look fat, even though she did.
Needless to say, the ants loved their Queen, and devoted all of their energy to
loving her. The ant Queen smiled from the love that she felt for her children, and
the ant hive danced with joy. It would be a long time before Navin realised this
love that existed between the ants and their Queen, and between all insects and
animals for that matter. However, at this point Navin was terrified of these antmonsters who snatched corpses in the night.

The moon replaced the sun and night had fallen - the forest was once again
blanketed in total darkness. Navin, who was at least five trees away from home,
started to feel scared. He forgot which way he came from and it was so dark
that he could barely see in front of him. The sound of distant howling and
occasional barking terrified him. The spooked caterpillar curled up into a tiny ball
and wished with all his might that he was home, safely sheltered under his
mother's wings. In response to his wish the sky flashed a frightening yellow,
while a big grey cloud roared and shot a powerful bolt of electricity at a nearby
tree. Pain shot up the old tree's spine, which then split in two and collapsed
onto the ground. The sky was visibly upset by the cloud's bad behaviour, and
so it cried fat droplets of rain onto the curled up ball that was Navin. The sky
would mourn that particular trees death until it had no more tears left to cry.

Two little brown caterpillars hurried under a giant leaf to protect themselves from
the falling rain, which was becoming more and more aggressive. The leaf
struggled to stay still and almost blew away in the wind. The Buddhapillar,
however, remained unmoved by the sky's display of strength. He was rooted in
the earth below like a large tree. His hands, which were cupped in his lap, slowly
	  

9	  

filled with water. Despite the blistering cold, a blazing fire warmed the inside of
his belly, and behind his closed eyelids were glowing embers of serenity. The
Buddhapillar focused his mind's eye on the image of a still lake - he was so
absorbed in this meditation that he felt as though he was physically there at the
lake, making circles in the water with his fingers. As time went by the clouds in
the blue sky above the lake made all sorts of exciting shapes and then faded
away into nothing, then back into more shapes, then back into nothing.
Meanwhile the Buddhapillar felt his body expanding, and eventually found
himself inside the lake, only to realise that he was the lake. The water was very
muddy, and grains of dirt floated and bobbed at its surface. The dirt, however,
slowly sank to the ground with each deep inhalation of the Buddhapillar’s
breath. Eventually, all the dirt remained at the bottom, and the lake became as
clear as the now cloudless sky above it.

Rays of sunlight focused on Navin's curled up body like a laser, and eventually
he uncurled and shook the water off himself. Two dogs covered in mud
watched him curiously. One of the dogs inched closer and sniffed the caterpillar
to gauge whether he was friend or foe. Navin jumped up in surprise and
screamed out “Please don't eat me!” The dogs laughed so hard that they fell
over and rolled around on the floor, getting muddier in the process. “Why would
we waste our time eating something as small as you!?” they exclaimed. Navin
looked at his little body, and then at the big dogs, and he realised how small he
really was.

“What are you doing in the forest all by yourself?” the larger of the two dogs
asked, “Don't you know it's dangerous to travel alone?” the smaller one added
helpfully. Navin thought about this for a second and replied honestly “I don't
know…” Both dogs looked at each other and as they did their eyes lit up. “Are
you… ARE YOU, the awakened one?” both dogs yelped in joy at their grand
discovery. Navin was utterly confused, seeing as he did just wake up, but
couldn't understand why that was so special to these dogs. One of the dogs
pushed a large oval shaped fruit towards him with its wet nose. “Eat this,” he
	  

10	  

pleaded. “Behind its skin is the juiciest flesh that this forest can provide, it is our
gift to you, please take it and may it give you energy.” Navin's head was still
cloudy and it took him a moment to realise that the dogs were mistaking him for
that caterpillar the wind had told him about, the Buddhapillar. “I'm not who you
think I am. I'm just a caterpillar,” Navin replied hesitantly. The dogs laughed
happily, “We know you are just a caterpillar, we have heard many times from
others, that is what makes you so special. You have brought hope in this world.
If someone as small as you can become enlightened, then so can everyone
else!” Both dogs hurried off into the forest, full of content that they had finally
met the Buddhapillar, and above all, ecstatic that the unbelievable was true and
the impossible, possible.

Navin climbed on top of the giant fruit and pondered. He was very hungry but
couldn't figure out how he was going to penetrate the fruit's skin. He tried as
hard as he could but couldn't even make a dent. Navin finally gave up. He did
not get to taste the mango's sweet nectar. Instead he laid his back against the
fruit and stared up at the formless clouds above him, and as he did, he thought
about the Buddhapillar.
Just as the clouds passed above Navin and the mango, so did the time, and
soon minutes turned into days and days into weeks. Navin sat by the mango the
entire time and watched life pass him by. He had resigned from his journey,
knowing all too well that he was too far from home to ever return, and was too
small to survive all by himself. Navin was feeling weak, and knew his time was
running out. He no longer cared about whether or not he turned into a butterfly;
the only thing that remained in his mind was the Buddhapillar. Navin had never
met this mysterious caterpillar, but he had heard countless tales from the many
insects that had passed by Navin and his mango - which was very quickly stolen
from him - and knew that he had to meet this legendary being while he still had
a chance. Navin mustered the little energy he had left and followed the direction
the wind was blowing, positive that it was the right path to take. Along the way
Navin happened upon small a puddle of water and drank from it thirstily, as he
	  

11	  

drank he noticed his reflection for the first time since he left his home. His face
was withered and gray, his eyes sunken, and wrinkles branched out in every
direction on his skin. Navin stared at his reflection for what felt like an eternity,
and as he did a memory of his father’s old, wrinkled face flashed in his mind, a
face he had not seen since a few days after his birth.

As Navin looked deeply into own reflection an icy sensation formed at the tip of
his tail and then jolted up his spine with the speed and ferocity of a tornado and
exploded at the top of his head. The feeling that followed was as though he
were a flower that was blooming open to absorb the suns light; warmth, which
vibrated throughout his caterpillar body and resonated across the entire forest,
replaced the cold he felt before. This vibration slowed down, as though his body
was absorbing it, and then it turned into a big smile, and Navin couldn’t help but
let out a big laugh. “Ahh! Now I see,” he said to the sky, and he went on to drink
from the puddle in peace.

With a newfound energy Navin climbed the nearest tree all the way to its
summit, and wiggled his way onto a dangling twig. He sat there in total silence
and gazed out into the open sky, which did not appear to be any larger or closer
than it was all the way on the ground. He looked at the fluffy white clouds as
they transformed effortlessly into a thousand different shapes, and then
evaporated into the blank canvas that was the blue sky. Even though Navin was
now old and wrinkled and could feel that his time was slipping away - that he
would soon leave his body - the thought didn't touch the motionless caterpillar’s
mind, for he felt more alive now than he ever did before. Watching the clouds he
realised that everything was impermanent, and that everything must die in order
to be reborn, to become new. Destruction and creation are one in the same.
Navin sat for so long that he witnessed the sunset and the moon take its place,
and he saw the sun rise from the earth again, like a fiery orb of energy. From this
high up he marveled at how the sun gradually lit up the darkness by showering it
with light. Every single day this amazing process happens, but he had been
blind this whole time to the beautiful clockwork of nature, its constant folding
	  

12	  

and unfolding. Time appeared to stop, and the sunrise hung motionlessly in the
pastel orange sky. Navin closed his eyes peacefully, but was not greeted with
dreams, instead all thoughts ceased to exist, and without realising it a cocoon
formed around his entire body. He eventually emerged from his cocoon, but he
did not emerge as Navin, the old caterpillar - he had no recollection of ever
being Navin. The butterfly saw the world with fresh eyes, and when it opened its
wings for the first time it flew. Two small children holding nets saw the butterfly
flutter gracefully over their heads. One of the children swiped at it with his net
and exclaimed proudly “Yes! I caught it!"

	  

	  

13	  


