I never thought my metallic fanny pack could look this good. My fresh new
Skechers accentuate its luster like never before. I complete the look with double-knotted
neon yellow laces and wear the sneakers out of the store and glide on a coat of
grapefruit Chapstick, and I’m ready to make my way back to the mall parking lot.
And that’s when I see her.
She’s no one in particular, but I know her all too well. I see girls like her in fashion
magazines when I’m in line at Walgreens. Her hair has this magical shine that puts my
fanny pack to shame, and she carries a navy leather purse that matches her pinstriped
pencil skirt perfectly. It makes no aerodynamic sense that she can walk in those
sky-high stiletto heels, which go click click click as she sashays by.
It’s not that I’m unhappy with myself, it’s just sometimes I wish people would look
up to me like that too, both figuratively and vertically. I suppose if I want to be that kind
of girl, I need to elevate myself, too; I cannot go walking around with the entire soles of
my feet touching the ground like a peasant. So I go buy stilettos of my own.
There are no Skechers at Bloomingdale’s. Only a million stilettos on glass
displays and chrome shelves climbing up the walls. I peruse each collection in search of
the perfect pair, but every shoe is more striking than the last. Thankfully, my fairy
godmother, the glittery lady working in the shoe department, helps me choose a chic
patent leather pair four inches high, with no platforms because apparently platforms are
out of style. She also tells me that it’s always okay to splurge on shoes, so for the first
time ever I don’t bother checking the price at the cash register. Feeling even sparklier
than all the shoes I just tried on, I shove my sneakers into my fanny pack and wear my
new stilettos out of the store. Click click click.
From the ankle down, I’m a supermodel, but there’s still the rest of me to deal
with. I imagine I should be wearing makeup to complete my look. The only issue is that
the closest thing I have to makeup is that grapefruit lip balm, so I swing by Sephora to
swap my Chapstick for lipstick. While I’m at it, I also buy three types of foundation and
every color eyeshadow the store has to offer. I take a look in the mirror on my way out. I

am four inches taller than the old me, and my lips shimmer with the sheen of Too
Faced’s “Chihuahua” gloss. I am radiant.
Revamping my existence leaves me rather thirsty, so I visit a posh cafe on the
fourth floor of the mall for some refreshment. I like diet Coke from the vending machine
better, but my shoes and I need to be here for the aesthetic. I pick up an orange juice.
Then I ponder the orange juice. And with the new executive power vested in me by
Salvatore Ferragamo, I veto. Girls with high heels should have high standards too, so
no orange juice for me! I must sip something more sophisticated. I put down the orange
juice and order a nice tea with a name I can't pronounce because I don’t speak tea. It
tastes like hot diluted Koolaid, but it's fine because it comes in an elegant glass teacup.
After finishing my drink, I want to head back to the mall parking lot, but I need to
stow my new makeup somewhere. I’d put it all in the fanny pack, but it’s already stuffed
with the shoes from my past life, and besides, I shouldn’t be wearing it anymore
anyway; metallic is so last season. So I go back to Bloomingdale’s and buy an
Oversized Tote Bag. I hide the fanny pack in the big pocket and drop my makeup in on
the sides. I slump the bag over my shoulder, and suddenly I’m sideways. The fanny
pack once resided squarely on my waist and kept me centered, but now my tote only
weighs down my left side, and I tilt more askew with each wobbly step.
But I persevere. I’m still walking in my heels, yes, click click click. ..
Smash. One wrong click and I’m sprawled across the floor. The makeup rattles to
the floor in circles around me. My left shoe lands six feet behind me, and the right still
dangles off my pinky toe. With a deep breath, I gather my scattered products and
senses. I refasten my fanny pack around my waist, put my Skechers back on, double
knot the neon yellow laces, and pull myself up.
After walking a mile in her stilettos, I think I prefer flats.


