I’d  never  heard  the  sound  of  bone  breaking,  but  somehow  I  recognized  it  when  his  head  
hit  the  pavement.  It  felt  like  I  stood  unmoving  for  an  eternity  before  I  knew  how  to  react.  
The  first  thing  I  did  was  throw  up.  
The  next  thing  I  did  was  call  for  an  ambulance.  
  
  
The  funeral  was  a  quiet  affair  on  a  Sunday  afternoon,  in  a  far  corner  of  the  cemetery  
where  the  surrounding  greenery  made  it  almost  possible  to  forget  we  were  in  Queens.  After  
a  while  everyone  left,  and  I  was  alone  with  just  the  headstone  and  the  freshly  turned  soil  
for  company.  I  smelled  rain  on  the  wind.  Standing  looking  down  at  the  slab  of  rock,  with  its  
quaint  words  and  the  dates  bookending  Tobin's  life  carved  with  that  certain  neatness  and  
finality,  I  knew  that  worrying  whether  I  could  make  it  back  to  the  apartment  before  the  
storm  hit  was  the  wrong  thing  to  worry  about.  But  sadness  was  always  the  hardest  emotion  
for  me  to  find.  In  the  face  of  other  people's  loss  I  could  see  their  pain,  I  could  understand  
why  they  were  in  pain,  but  I  could  never  really  relate.  
I  used  to  think,  if  something  like  that  happened  to  me,  I  would  finally  get  it.  
I  closed  my  eyes,  tried  to  push  my  mind  back  to  five  years  ago  when  I  had  found  
Bosco  dead.  I  had  cried  then,  I  think,  but  Bosco  had  been  my  dog,  my  loss.  I  had  never  been  
under  any  illusion  that  Tobin  belonged  to  me,  and  the  only  thing  I  could  pull  from  that  
memory  was  frustration.  Tobin  had  been  so  understanding,  he  didn’t  like  dogs  but  he  was  
sad  because  I  was  sad.  Despite  everything,  he’d  always  been  so  much  better  at  that  kind  of  
thing  than  I  was.  
“Alex!”  
I  heard  the  call,  but  I  didn't  completely  register  it,  or  the  footsteps  behind  me,  until  a  
hand  clapped  down  on  my  shoulder.  When  I  realized  it  was  Cy  I  felt  silly  for  flinching.  
"Missed  you  at  the  wake,"  he  said  simply.  He  smelled  like  cigarettes  but  I  was  used  to  that  
by  now,  and  if  I  minded  at  all  it  was  only  because  it  reminded  me  of  exactly  how  long  it  had  
been  since  Tobin  insisted  I  quit.  
"I  was  there…  I  hung  back,  I  didn't  think  Tobin's  parents  would  appreciate  me  
showing  up."  That  was  at  least  partly  true,  they  had  never  particularly  liked  me  and  now  I  
wasn’t  really  anything  to  them  but  a  reminder  that  their  son  was  dead.  Cy  accepted  the  
explanation.  It  was  probably  easier  to  swallow  than  I  didn’t  think  I  looked  upset  enough  
would  have  been.  
Looking  up,  I  expected  to  see  sadness  but  all  I  could  read  was  a  sort  of  pensiveness  
in  his  expression,  and  he  stayed  at  my  side  in  silence  for  a  while  before  speaking  again.  “It’s  
weird,  really.  I  always  figured  Tobin  was  the  type  to  die  young,  but  not  like  this.  It’s  so…  un-­‐
spectacular,  you  know?  It  doesn’t  seem  right.”  
I  wasn’t  sure  I  agreed  with  that,  but  I  wasn’t  sure  what  part  of  it  I  disagreed  with.  I  
was  still  searching  for  a  way  to  break  the  silence  when  the  wind  suddenly  kicked  up  with  
new  energy.  Bundling  my  coat  more  tightly  around  my  shoulders,  I  said,  "I  should  get  home  
before  it  rains,"  and  hurried  away  before  Cy  could  offer  anything  but  a  mumbled  
agreement.  
  

  

  

  

NOISE   2  

—  
  
On  the  doorstep  there  was  a  basket  wrapped  in  silvery  plastic  with  an  envelope  
taped  to  it.  I  didn’t  know  what  it  was  but  I  could  guess,  and  I  carried  it  inside.  The  
apartment  was  cold  and  quiet,  and  by  the  time  I  got  home  the  daylight  wasn’t  much  more  
than  a  faint  fading  glow  behind  the  storm  clouds,  making  everything  look  grey  and  flat.  I  
hadn’t  quite  beaten  the  rain  despite  my  efforts,  and  after  a  two-­‐mile  walk  and  three  flights  
of  stairs  I  didn’t  have  the  energy  to  do  more  than  leave  my  soggy  coat  and  boots  on  the  
floor  by  the  entrance  before  moving  on.  The  clutter  I  had  been  accustomed  to  before  felt  
stifling  now;  everything  around  me  still  felt  half-­‐his  and  I  couldn’t  get  comfortable  in  the  
living  room  (not  on  the  couch  that  was  his  every  game  night,  when  he  tried  to  convince  me  
shooting  games  were  fun  if  I’d  just  give  them  a  chance),  or  in  the  bedroom  (not  in  the  bed  
he  always  sat  perched  on  the  edge  of,  laughing  good-­‐naturedly  while  I  struggled  to  coax  my  
hair  into  a  style  that  didn’t  read  “just  woke  up  after  sleeping  under  a  table,”  as  he  put  it).  
Going  out  on  the  balcony  for  air  wasn’t  even  an  option.  
Definitely  not  there.  
Eventually,  after  changing  into  something  warm  and  dry,  I  wandered  into  the  
kitchen—the  only  place  neither  of  us  had  ever  spent  much  time.  I  slumped  into  a  chair  at  
the  little  table  in  the  corner,  absently  brushing  away  a  few  fast  food  wrappers  that  had  
never  been  dealt  with  and  barely  noticing  when  one  or  two  drifted  down  to  the  floor.  Head  
resting  in  my  hands,  I  found  myself  studying  the  wood  grain  of  the  table  absently  while  my  
mind  wandered.  In  the  other  room  the  ticking  of  the  clock  hanging  on  the  wall  seemed  
louder  than  usual  in  the  silence.  

  

NOISE   3  

Eight  years  together  and  all  I  could  think  now  was  this  apartment  seems  too  big  for  
me.  
  
I  don’t  remember  how  long  I  sat  there,  and  I  definitely  don’t  remember  falling  asleep  
at  the  table,  but  I  jolted  awake  early  the  next  morning  with  my  shoulders  sore  and  a  crick  in  
my  neck,  and  finally  realized  the  phone  was  ringing.  I  made  my  way  back  out  to  the  living  
room  to  answer  with  a  simple  “hello?”  then  an  exasperated  “hey,  sis.”  I  had  never  told  
Carmen  what  happened,  and  she  had  apparently  called  with  the  sole  purpose  of  quizzing  
me  about  it.  
As  I  sat  there  answering  her  questions  as  peaceably  as  possible,  my  gaze  landed  on  
the  plastic-­‐wrapped  basket  I  had  abandoned  in  the  middle  of  the  living  room.  “God,  Alex,  
you  always  do  this,”  Carmen  was  saying  on  the  other  end.  “Something  bad  happens,  you  just  
shut  yourself  up  and  you  don’t  let  anyone  help.  You  get  so  quiet,  you  make  people  really  
worry.”  I  leaned  over  and  peeled  off  the  envelope.  I  skimmed  the  rain-­‐splotched  letter  
inside,  then  laughed  harshly  despite  myself  and  immediately  regretted  doing  so  while  on  
the  phone.  “Alex,  are  you  laughing  at  me?”  
“No,  no,  sorry.”  I  turned  the  letter  over  in  my  hand.  “The  landlord  sent  me  a  gift  
basket  and  told  me  not  to  worry  about  the  rent  for  a  while.”  
“Well  that’s  nice,  isn’t  it?  Why  are  you  laughing?”  
“I  think  she’s  worried  I’ll  sue  her  over  the  broken  guardrail.  I  did  tell  her  it  was  a  
hazard…  Told  Tobin  too,  but…”  Carmen  didn’t  seem  to  have  anything  to  say  to  that.  I  
glanced  up  at  the  wall  clock,  ticking  the  seconds  away  into  the  silence,  before  saying,  

  

  

  

NOISE   4  

“Carmen,  listen,  I  really  do  appreciate  you  calling,  I  just…  I  don’t  really  want  to  talk  about  it  
right  now,  okay?”  
She  sighed  into  the  receiver  on  her  end.  “Fine,  but  you  have  friends  and  family  that  
understand  what  you’re  going  through,  you  don’t  have  to  deal  with  this  on  your  own.”  I  
thanked  her  for  the  advice  and  let  her  go.  
  
I  took  two  days  off  from  work  with  the  intention  of  packing  away  Tobin’s  
belongings.  After  a  day  and  a  half  I  didn’t  feel  like  I’d  gotten  anything  done  and  couldn’t  
honestly  say  what  I  had  spent  all  my  time  doing.  Boxes  were  stacking  up  around  the  
apartment,  and  as  soon  as  I  filled  them  I  would  forget  what  was  in  them.  Their  presence  
made  me  uncomfortable,  they  were  full  of  Tobin’s  life.  
Countless  little  pieces  of  Tobin.  
The  silence  was  settling  too  heavily  over  everything,  so  it  startled  me  when  the  
doorbell  rang.  I  had  been  looking  through  CDs,  trying  to  remember  if  any  of  them  were  
actually  mine  or  if  I  had  just  listened  to  whatever  Tobin  wanted.  I  was  grateful  for  the  
distraction,  although  when  I  opened  the  door  to  a  pair  of  anxiously  sympathetic  smiles,  
there  was  a  long  moment  where  I  couldn’t  remember  who  they  were.  
“Heeeyyy,  Alex,  good  to  see  ya!”  The  bubbly  redhead  is  Lisa,  I  told  myself.  Normally  
she  would  have  made  a  joke  about  starting  to  wonder  if  I  was  still  alive,  I  thought  she  must  
be  editing  herself  under  the  circumstances.  
  “What  are  you  up  to?”  her  boyfriend  asked,  leaning  in  to  peer  into  the  apartment  
around  me.  That  one  is…  Jackson,  right?  I  glanced  over  my  shoulder  to  follow  his  gaze,  

  

NOISE   5  

resisting  the  urge  to  tell  him  that  I  was  ‘up  to’  dealing  with  an  apartment  full  of  a  dead  
man’s  belongings.  
I  settled  on  “Trying  to  pack  up  Tobin’s  things.”  I  wished  I  sounded  sad,  not  just  tired.  
“Well  we  were  just  in  the  neighborhood,”  Lisa  smiled—I  knew  they  had  no  reason  to  
just  be  in  this  neighborhood—“and  I  thought  you  might  need  a  change  of  scenery.  No  one  
has  really  seen  you  since…  y’know…”  
“Since  the  funeral.”  
Lisa  didn’t  seem  to  want  to  say  it  out  loud.  She  nodded,  and  for  a  second  her  perfect  
smile  faltered.  
“What’d  you  have  in  mind?”  I  asked.  
“Just  come  out  for  some  coffee  or  something,  maybe?”  She  said,  slowly  regaining  her  
original  cheer.  “Clear  your  head,  get  away  from  all  these  memories  for  a  while.”  
I  didn’t  want  to  go,  but  I  didn’t  want  to  stay  in  the  apartment  either.  It  wasn’t  the  
memories  that  were  bothering  me,  just  the  silence.  So  I  went  with  Lisa  and  Jackson  to  a  
coffee  shop  where  they’d  heard  the  scones  were  just  perfect,  and  listened  to  the  two  of  
them  talk  about  their  lives  and  occasionally  forget  that  I  was  with  them  because  I  had  
nothing  to  say.  Tobin  had  always  been  the  one  to  carry  conversations,  especially  with  
people  like  Lisa  and  Jackson,  who  would  laugh  at  his  jokes  and  hang  on  every  word  of  the  
stories  about  his  late-­‐night  adventures  in  the  seediest  parts  of  the  city.  I  had  a  harder  time  
caring,  it  was  always  the  second  or  third  time  I  had  heard  them.  
Every  now  and  then  Lisa  would  pause,  place  her  hand  on  mine  and  give  me  her  best  
sad,  understanding  look.  “I  can’t  even  begin  to  imagine  what  it  must  have  been  like,”  she  
said  at  one  point.  “But  you  know  we’re  all  here  for  you,  if  you  just  reach  out.”  I  nodded  

  

  

  

NOISE   6  

solemnly,  then  looked  down  at  the  half-­‐empty  coffee  cup  in  front  of  me  because  I  felt  like  
she  was  trying  too  hard  and  I  didn’t  know  what  to  say  to  her.  Later  Jackson  said,  “Don’t  
blame  yourself.  There’s  nothing  you  could  have  done,”  and  I  didn’t  know  why  he  was  telling  
me  that  because  I  didn’t  remember  saying  I  blamed  myself  for  any  of  it.  I  found  myself  
wondering,  why  am  I  friends  with  these  people?  But  these  were  Tobin’s  friends,  and  if  it  
hadn’t  been  for  him,  I  probably  never  would  have  met  them.  And  if  it  hadn’t  been  for  his  
death,  they  probably  never  would  have  come  to  me.  
Eventually  I  felt  like  I  had  to  excuse  myself.  Listening  to  the  two  of  them  alternate  
between  trying  to  comfort  me  and  trying  to  act  like  nothing  had  changed  was  frustrating,  
and  pretending  that  I  appreciated  the  effort  was  exhausting.  In  the  end  all  I  could  think  to  
tell  them  was  that  I  really  should  get  back  to  packing  before  I  had  to  start  work  again,  and  I  
left.  
  
Despite  what  I  told  them,  I  didn’t  go  back  to  the  apartment  right  away.  I  thought  I  
had  started  walking  in  a  random  direction  until  I  realized  how  close  I  was  to  Cy’s  place,  so  I  
covered  the  remaining  distance  with  that  in  mind.  He  didn’t  seem  to  mind  the  unexpected  
visit,  and  we  went  a  few  blocks  down  the  road  for  dinner.  
  

“If  you  don’t  mind  my  saying,”  he  ventured,  “you  seem…  out  of  sorts.”  
“Well  what  do  you  expect?”  I  asked,  picking  at  my  sandwich  without  much  

enthusiasm.  
“You  want  to  tell  me  about  it?  I  don’t  think  you’ve  really  talked  about  what  
happened  that  morning.”  

  

NOISE   7  

I  pulled  a  slice  of  cheese  out  of  the  sandwich  and  ate  that  by  itself.  “It’s…  kind  of  a  
blur,”  I  answered  carefully.  “I’d  rather  not  think  about  it  too  hard.  Everyone  keeps  coming  
to  me…  trying  to  relate,  acting  like  they  know  what  I’m  feeling.”  
“You  think  that’s  wrong?”  Cy  leaned  back,  and  I  wondered  if  he  really  wanted  to  
know  or  if  he  was  just  trying  to  get  me  to  talk.  
“I  don’t  know.  I  can’t  tell  if  everyone’s  treating  me  differently,  or  I’ve  just  forgotten  
how  to  act  around  them.”  
“I  think  you’re  probably  overthinking  it,”  Cy  said  with  a  half-­‐hearted  smile.  After  a  
moment  he  asked,  “How  are  you  doing  alone  in  the  apartment?”  I  probably  took  too  long  to  
answer  that  question,  or  the  look  on  my  face  might  have  been  answer  enough.  “If  you  want,  
you  could  get  out  of  there  for  a  while,”  he  offered.  “You  want  to  stay  at  my  place?”  
I  wanted  to  take  him  up  on  it.  I  wanted  to  leave  the  apartment  behind  and  never  
think  about  it  again.  All  I  said  was  “No,  it’s  fine.”  
  
By  the  time  I  did  get  back  to  the  apartment  the  sun  had  dipped  below  the  skyline  
and  the  apartment  was  still  dark  and  quiet.  The  CDs  scattered  on  the  floor  and  all  the  half-­‐
filled  boxes  just  made  me  angry  then,  and  I  wished  Tobin  hadn’t  enjoyed  spending  money  
so  much,  or  at  least  that  he  had  bought  less  pointless  things.  A  tiny  flashing  red  light  by  the  
TV  told  me  someone  had  called  while  I  was  out.  I  started  to  pick  my  way  around  the  clutter  
to  reach  the  answering  machine  before  asking  myself  why  I  was  making  such  an  effort.  I  
kicked  the  last  stack  of  boxes  out  of  the  way  with  a  sigh,  and  when  the  top  box  toppled  over  
and  hit  the  ground  something  inside  shattered.  I  reached  over  it  to  the  answering  machine  

  

  

  

NOISE   8  

and  pressed  the  button.  There  was  one  short  beep,  then  there  was  Jackson,  a  little  hushed  
and  a  little  irritated.  
“Hey   Alex,   listen.   I   know   Lisa   would   never   say   anything   to   you,   but   that  
little  show  today  was  pretty  rude.  I  mean  I  get  that  you  were  dating  Tobin  
a   few   years,   but   we   all   lost   a   good   friend.   Some   of   us   are   trying   to   push  
through  it  and  reach  out  to  you  so  the  least  you  could  do  is  make  a  little  
effort.  I  mean  christ,  you  didn’t  even  show  up  at  the  funeral  so-­‐”  
“I   was   there,”   I   sighed   at   the   machine,   kneeling   down   and   folding   my   arms   on   top   of  
the  desk.  
“…like   you   get   the   monopoly   on   being   upset,   okay?   You   can’t   just   shut  
yourself  away  and  expect  people  to  feel  sorry  for  you.”  
I  deleted  the  message,  but  it  didn’t  matter.  The  words  were  already  replaying  in  my  
head  as  I  sank  down  onto  the  carpet.  
We  all  lost  a  good  friend.  
The  last  shreds  of  sunlight  drained  out  of  the  sky,  and  the  apartment  faded  into  a  
muddy  city  darkness  of  flickering,  buzzing  street  lamps  and  occasional  passing  car  
headlights.  
The  least  you  could  do  is  make  a  little  effort.  
I  became  aware  of  the  clock  on  the  wall  above  me—every  tick-­‐tock  echoing  around  
the  quiet  room—and  I  wondered  why  anyone  would  invent  something  that  made  it  so  easy  
to  measure  how  much  of  your  life  you  were  wasting  on  one  task.  
You  can’t  just  shut  yourself  away  and  expect  people  to  feel  sorry  for  you.  
  

  

NOISE   9  

—  
  
The  more  of  Tobin’s  things  I  packed,  the  less  it  looked  like  anyone  had  ever  lived  in  
the  apartment.  
  
—  
  
Lisa  stopped  by  again,  wanting  to  tell  me  that  she  had  found  out  about  Jackson  
calling  me  and  she  was  just  appalled,  he  had  never  handled  grief  well  so  I  should  cut  him  
some  slack,  but  really  he  did  have  a  point  and  it  looked  like  I  hadn’t  slept  or  stepped  outside  
in  forever.  I  told  her  I  had  plans  with  someone  that  afternoon  so  she  would  leave.  I  couldn’t  
understand  how  the  wall  clock  was  the  only  thing  making  any  noise  in  the  apartment.  
Tobin’s  parents  came  by  to  take  away  some  of  the  boxes.  They  talked  a  lot  but  I  think  I  
could  count  the  number  of  words  they  said  to  me  directly  on  one  hand,  and  when  they  left  
the  apartment  didn’t  look  any  different.  There  were  still  boxes  everywhere  and  there  was  
too  much  space  and  nothing  belonged  to  me.  I  wondered  why  it  had  never  occurred  to  me  
to  turn  the  TV  on  or  something.  When  the  phone  rang  it  startled  me,  and  on  the  other  end  
my  boss’s  voice  told  me  that  he  understood  I  was  dealing  with  personal  issues,  but  given  
my  absence  and  lack  of  communication  they  were  probably  going  to  have  to  let  me  go,  and  I  
didn’t  know  what  he  meant  but  I  thanked  him  for  letting  me  know  and  hung  up.  Then  I  
remembered  I  should  have  gone  back  to  work  two  weeks  ago  and  I  didn’t  know  what  I  was  
doing  with  all  my  time.  The  apartment  was  too  quiet  and  I  just  wanted  people  to  stop  
coming  by  and  stop  calling  I  wanted  to  scream  I  wanted  to  push  all  of  Tobin’s  garbage  off  

  

  

  

NOISE   10  

the  balcony  after  him  I  wanted  that  god-­‐forsaken  clock  to  stop  ticking  and  then  a  thought  
occurred  to  me,  completely  unbidden.  
Tobin  kept  a  gun  in  the  top  drawer  of  the  bedroom  dresser.  
I  don’t  remember  getting  it  but  I  remember  sitting  on  the  living  room  floor  with  it  
and  I  remember  thinking  it  was  heavier  than  I  expected.  
It  seemed  like  such  an  obvious  solution.  No  more  apartment,  no  more  boxes,  no  
more  people  taking  up  my  time,  no  more  time  no  more  silence  no  more  ticking  wall  clock  
the  sunset  was  blazing  red  in  the  clouds  turning  the  sky  into  a  watercolor  painting  
of  the  pavement  three  stories  below  
then  it  faded  and  the  sky  was  dark  and  I  thought  there  should  still  be  light  coming  in  
but  at  some  point  the  street  lamp  outside  the  window  must  have  burned  out  because  there  
wasn’t  even  the  buzzing  anymore  
and  everything  was  just  solid,  impenetrable  black.  
The  clock  was  ticking  the  seconds  away  into  the  darkness.  
The  barrel  of  the  gun  was  cold  and  I  wondered  if  the  bullet  would  be  cold  too.  
  
—  
  
Someone  was  knocking  on  the  door.  
“Alex!”  
It  seemed  like  getting  up  to  answer  it  would  be  a  lot  of  effort.  
“Come  on,  I  know  you’re  home.”  
If  I  waited  long  enough,  I  was  sure  whoever  it  was  would  leave.  

  

NOISE   11  

“Alex  you  know  I  still  have  a  key  to  this  apartment,  I  will  just  come  in  so  you  better  be  
decent.”  
Cy.  
I  only  realized  my  eyes  had  been  closed  when  I  opened  them.  It  didn’t  make  much  
difference;  the  apartment  was  nothing  but  dark  shapes.  I  hauled  myself  to  my  feet  and  
stumbled  toward  the  light  switch,  getting  the  overhead  light  on  just  as  Cy  got  the  front  door  
unlocked  and  pushed  his  way  in.  The  first  thing  he  said  to  me  was,  “You  look  like  shit.”  
“Thanks,”  I  sighed,  rubbing  my  eyes  and  trying  to  smooth  down  my  hair,  as  if  that  
would  make  any  difference.  “What  are  you  doing  here?  It’s  like…”  I  looked  over  my  
shoulder  to  check  the  time,  but  the  hands  on  the  wall  clock  told  me  it  was  6:15,  and  
whether  that  was  A.M.  or  P.M.  I  was  pretty  sure  it  was  wrong.  I  wondered  how  long  the  
batteries  had  been  dead.  
“It’s  1  A.M.,”  Cy  offered,  checking  his  watch.  
“Jesus,”  I  grimaced.  “God,  no  wonder  I  look  like  shit.  What  do  you  want?”  
“Do  you  have  any  idea  how  worried  everyone  is  about  you?”  He  shut  the  door  
behind  him  with  a  dull  click  and  leaned  against  it,  looking  the  apartment  over,  looking  me  
over.  “No  one  hears  from  you  for  days  and  then  when  they  do  you’re  barely  half-­‐there.  I  
went  down  to  the  shop  looking  for  you  and  they  said  you’d  been  fired  because  you  never  
came  back  to  work.  Honestly,  what  the  hell?”  
I  didn’t  know  what  he  wanted  me  to  tell  him.  I  looked  around  the  room  and  
considered  saying  I  had  wanted  to  quit  anyway,  or  I  was  still  trying  to  cope  with  Tobin’s  
death,  or  it  was  none  of  his  business.  I  didn’t  have  time  to  say  anything  before  he  was  
pushing  past  me  to  grab  my  coat,  saying,  “Put  your  shoes  on.  You  need  to  get  out.”  

  

  

  

NOISE   12  

“At  1  A.M.?  What’s  open  at  1  A.M.?”  
  
The  lights  inside  the  Taco  Bell  were  giving  me  a  headache  and  I  didn’t  want  to  look  
at  Cy,  so  I  just  buried  my  head  in  my  arms  on  the  table  and  listened  to  him  eat  cheap  food  
and  talk  about  nothing.  Eventually  he  said,  “I  think  you  need  to  get  out  of  that  apartment  
for  a  while.”  
After  a  moment’s  consideration  I  muttered,  “I  think  you’re  a  horrible  person  for  
bringing  me  here.”  
He  just  laughed.  “You’re  staying  with  me  for  a  while.  I’m  not  asking  this  time.”  
I  peered  up  at  him.  What  I  thought  was  god  yes  please  take  me  away  from  that  place.  
What  I  said  was  “Why?”  
“Why  not?”  He  shrugged.  I  didn’t  have  the  energy  to  argue,  so  we  drove  back  to  his  
place.  It  was  bigger  than  Tobin’s  apartment,  it  was  warm  and  the  quiet  was  a  different  kind  
of  quiet.  Tobin  had  never  been  here,  he’d  never  cared  for  Cy  that  much.  “You  can  stay  here  
as  long  as  you  want,”  Cy  said.  “You  still  know  your  way  around,  right?”  
I  think  I  said  something  but  I  don’t  know  what.  I  had  already  collapsed  onto  his  
couch  and  nothing  mattered  anymore.  
  
I  woke  to  the  smell  of  food  and  the  sounds  of  cooking.  I  could  see  Cy  in  the  kitchen,  
and  I  watched  him  until  he  noticed  I  was  awake  and  smiled.  I  just  rolled  over  onto  my  back  
and  said,  “Don’t  you  have  to  work  today?”  
“It’s  fine,”  he  answered  dismissively.  
“No  it’s  not.  What  are  you  even  doing?”  

  

NOISE   13  

“I’m  not  going  to  leave  you  to  waste  away  in  that  apartment  alone.  Let’s  be  honest,  
you’re  falling  apart  without  anyone  around.”  
He  made  it  sound  so  obvious,  like  it  just  made  sense.  I  had  a  sudden,  overwhelming  
feeling  that  I  could  have  told  him  any  secret  or  confessed  any  sin  in  the  world,  and  he  
would  just  accept  it.  The  words  were  out  of  my  mouth  before  I  could  think  of  a  more  
breakfast-­‐appropriate  topic.  
“Yesterday  I  almost  killed  myself,”  I  said,  matter-­‐of-­‐factly.    I  ran  my  hands  through  
my  hair  and  stared  up  at  the  ceiling,  bracing  for  a  gasp,  a  demand  for  answers,  for  him  to  
tell  me  I  had  so  much  to  live  for  or  I  was  a  coward  for  wanting  to  take  the  easy  way  out—
the  kinds  of  reactions  I  thought  I  should  expect.  
“Really?”  he  mused,  returning  from  the  kitchen  with  two  plates  of  food,  sliding  one  
across  the  coffee  table  to  me  before  dropping  into  his  armchair.  I  glanced  sidelong  at  the  
plate,  then  at  him,  as  he  asked  simply,  “How?”  
I  held  up  a  hand,  thumb  and  index  finger  extended  to  mimic  a  gun,  and  pressed  it  
against  my  temple,  accompanying  the  admittedly  tasteless  gesture  with  “Did  you  know  
Tobin  owned  a  gun?”  
Cy  just  nodded  thoughtfully.  In  the  few  long  minutes  of  silence  that  settled  between  
us,  I  rolled  over  onto  my  side  to  pick  at  the  food  that  had  been  put  before  me.  Scrambled  
eggs,  sausage.  Under  normal  circumstances  I  would’ve  been  overjoyed  for  someone  to  cook  
for  me.  
“Why?”  Cy  asked  unexpectedly,  and  when  I  gave  him  a  questioning  glance  he  
clarified,  “What  made  you  think  that  was  the  best  choice?”  

  

  

  

NOISE   14  

I  had  to  consider  that  for  a  second.  “I  didn’t…  think  it  was  the  best  choice,  it  just  
seemed…  convenient.  I  don’t  know  what  to  do  with  Tobin’s  stuff,  or  what  to  do  with  myself,  
I  don’t  know  if  I  should  move  to  a  smaller  place,  I  don’t  know  what  to  say  to  people  when  
they  try  to  talk  to  me…  I  don’t  feel  like  I  have  anything  holding  me  here…  I  barely  feel  like  I  
know  who  I  am  anymore,  I  thought  maybe  I’d  just  avoid  all  the  trouble.”  I  took  a  bite  of  the  
eggs,  but  they  were  already  unappetizingly  cold.  “Is  that…  incredibly  selfish?”  
“Maybe,”  was  all  Cy  offered.  I  sighed,  unsure  what  I  was  expecting  him  to  say  and  
unsure  I  was  satisfied  with  what  I  got.  I  rolled  over  again  without  eating  anything  else.  I  
listened  to  the  clink  and  scrape  of  Cy’s  fork  on  his  plate  for  a  while  before  I  noticed  his  coat  
draped  over  the  back  of  the  couch  and  dragged  it  down  to  me,  fishing  a  cigarette  and  his  
lighter  out  of  the  pocket.  When  Cy  said  mildly,  “I  thought  you’d  quit,”  I  rolled  my  eyes  and  
muttered  something  about  it  being  a  free  country.  “So  what  made  you  change  your  mind?”  
I  knew  he  wasn’t  talking  about  the  smoking.  That  was  an  easier  answer  but  I  didn’t  
respond  right  away,  just  exhaled  a  plume  of  smoke  and  watched  it  float  in  a  lazy  cloud  up  
toward  the  ceiling.  “I  didn’t,”  I  said  at  length.  “I  was  too  scared  to  pull  the  trigger  and  I  gave  
up.”  
“Good.”  That  caught  me  off-­‐guard.  I  sat  up  to  regard  Cy  as  he  went  on,  “I’ve  always  
thought  that  if  you’re  not  afraid  of  death,  it’s  because  you  don’t  place  any  real  value  on  
what  you  have  in  life.”  
I  wasn’t  sure  if  I  agreed  with  that,  or  at  least  I  wasn’t  sure  I  liked  the  implication.  I  
thought  back  to  Tobin,  who  had  liked  to  live  on  the  edge,  whether  that  meant  being  an  
amateur  daredevil  or  just  picking  fights  in  seedy  bars  when  he  was  too  many  drinks  in.  
Tobin  had  never  seemed  like  the  type  of  person  who  was  afraid  to  die,  and  I  had  always  

  

NOISE   15  

thought  that  seemed  like  something  that  should  be  exciting  and  admirable.  Now,  all  of  a  
sudden  I  felt  retroactively  pointless.  I  felt  sick.  I  didn’t  know  what  to  say  so  I  just  leaned  
back,  fixed  my  eyes  on  the  ceiling  and  tried  to  enjoy  my  first  cigarette  in  eight  years.  
“So  when  do  you  want  to  tell  me  about  it?”  
“About  what?”  I  grumbled,  unmoving.  
“Give  me  some  credit,  Alex,  I’m  not  blind.  I  can  see  something’s  weighing  on  you  and  
it’s  not  just  that  you  were  there  when  he  died.  The  last  time  we  talked  you  said  it  was  all  a  
blur.”  
The  room  became  too  still.  I  didn’t  look  back  at  Cy.  I  just  held  my  breath,  saying  
nothing.  He  hadn’t  asked  me  anything  direct  yet.  
“Tobin’s  death  wasn’t  an  accident,  was  it?”  
I  stopped  holding  my  breath.  
  
—  
  
Tobin  didn’t  come  home  that  night,  although  he’d  sworn  he  would.  
I  didn’t  see  him  until  the  next  morning,  when  I  got  up  and  found  him  in  the  living  room  
drinking  coffee  with  the  TV  on.  His  fresh  black  eye  gave  me  some  idea  of  where  he’d  been.  
“Alex,  g’morning,”  he  grinned,  “I  missed  you  last  night,  what  were  you  doing  wasting  your  
time  here?”  
I  skirted  around  him  to  the  kitchen.  At  least  this  time  he’d  actually  thought  to  make  me  
coffee,  too.  “I  told  you  I  had  to  work  early,”  I  said.  He  just  laughed.  
I  could  have  recited  his  side  of  the  conversation,  almost  word  for  word.  

  

  

  

NOISE   16  

“You  say  that  every  weekend.  I  mean,  you  work  at  a  print  shop,  how  hard  could  it  be?”  
he  said,  his  argument  every  time  I  chose  my  personal  responsibilities  over  whatever  he  
wanted.  I  stood  in  the  kitchen  doorway  with  my  coffee,  and  I  was  about  to  answer  but  he  cut  
me  off  with  a  dismissive  wave.  “’Everyone  else  depends  on  me  being  there,’  you  say.  You  know  
they  depend  on  you  because  you’re  predictable,  right?  You’re  always  available.”  I  didn’t  know  
how  I  was  expected  to  respond  to  that.  I  never  had.  Tobin  got  to  his  feet  and  moved  toward  
the  sliding  door  to  the  balcony.  “C’mon,  it’s  a  nice  morning,  at  the  very  least  come  spend  some  
time  with  me  and  let  me  tell  you  about  it.”  
“I  should  probably  get  ready  to  go,”  I  said  slowly,  glancing  at  the  clock  on  the  wall.  I  
didn’t  want  to  have  this  argument  again,  not  today.  
“Oh  come  on  Alex,”  he  sighed,  leaning  back  against  the  guardrail  outside.  “Just  do  
something  a  little  spontaneous  for  once  in  your  life.  You  can  be  like  half  an  hour  late  and  it’s  
not  gonna  kill  you.”  
The  old  metal  railing  groaned  under  his  weight  and  shifted  slightly.  I  had  told  him  time  
and  again  I  didn’t  think  it  was  safe  to  go  out  there  before  the  landlord  could  get  it  fixed,  he  
never  listened.  I  was  just  opening  my  mouth  to  tell  him  again  when  I  stopped  myself.  
He  wanted  me  to  be  unpredictable.  He  wanted  me  to  do  something  spontaneous  for  
once  in  my  life.  
So  I  set  my  coffee  down.  
  I  stepped  out  onto  the  balcony.  
And  I  pushed  him  as  hard  as  I  could.  

  

NOISE   17  

The  railing  crumbled  away  like  it  wasn’t  even  there.  It  was  only  three  stories  but  it  
seemed  like  he  fell  forever.  I’d  never  heard  the  sound  of  bone  breaking,  but  somehow  I  
recognized  it  when  his  head  hit  the  pavement.  

  

  

  

NOISE   18  


