Every morning we wake up, roll out of bed, and trudge through our morning
ritual – never expecting that any particular day will be the one that changes
everything. For me, that day came one fall morning when I went for a run. There
was a fiendish glee that coaxed me off the tidy sidewalks of suburbia and down a
small, wooded trail that led past the local penitentiary. I guess it was sort of like
my own cheap thrill to jog the 300 yards down a dirt road that ran parallel to the
fence with razor wire for a few steps before veering back into the woods. The first
time I made my way near the fence, my heart pounded as if I were smuggling
drugs through an airport. I felt the irrational rush of trying to get away with
something – wondering if I had crossed an invisible guard line. I always hoped to
see or hear something exciting from inside, and mentally rehearsed how I would
feign innocence if asked why I was running in such a restricted area. Nothing
interesting happened the first several times I ran there – each trip becoming less
exotic and thrilling. I have wished a thousand times that I had quit while I was
ahead.
One day as the path took me toward the fence, I saw a crusty section of paper
towel which had blown against the chain links. I thought I saw something written
on the wrinkled tan sheet. Maybe it was a note pertaining to a drug deal! I
scolded myself silently for having such a childish imagination but decided to make
a second lap on my run. After the initial lap, I went into my garage and got one of
those metal-and-plastic grabbing tools. The black, plastic trigger makes a claw
open and close. At this point, I still imagined that the fence might be electrified,
so I grabbed latex gloves – laughing under my breath as I visualized a glowing
skeleton of myself with frizzy hair like countless cartoon depictions of electric
shocks. I did reason that the act of picking up trash would be a calming sight to
any guard who had been silently watching me. Returning to the piece of paper, I
carefully gripped and pulled with my tool – remembering the old toy Operation. I
was able to get the sheet through in one piece. I looked at it and pictured the
metal dispenser from whence it had surely come – one like a million others with a
crooked silver crank handle. It contained industrial sized rolls loaded into a clampdown metal container with a miniature lock-and-key system. I laughed at the
thought of having this coarse, stiff paper protected by a lock. I stuffed the paper
in my pants as I resumed my jogging.
Back at home, I noticed that there was “invisible” writing on the paper, as if
someone had written with an inkless pen. I found a pencil and began making long,
light side-to-side strokes with the side of the point. I had not watched all those
cheesy mystery shows for nothing! Sure enough, the strokes covered the paper
with gray lead except for the places where the writer had pressed down with his
pen. The words began to appear. “Help me! Nobody knows I am here.” A morbid
fascination began to invade my thoughts. I mentally sorted through several
explanations. Could it be a prank? But what kind of prank would that be? Was the
writer insane? But the thought that opened one truly nasty Pandora’s Box in my
mind was the incredibly slim chance that it really could be true.
I have never been a particularly obsessive person, but I had never contemplated
a thought as upsetting and persistent as this. Countless times in the coming weeks
I tried to distract myself or rationalize how foolish and illogical the whole situation
was. I argued with myself that I could help lots of people in tangible ways rather
than start this hopeless quest to save this faceless man hidden behind those tall,
defiant walls. (My very own male Rapunzel. Geez!) I threw myself into activities
that had captured my attention in the past, but my efforts at distraction
amounted to the futility of hiding in a closet to escape the smoke of a house fire.
Questions kept sneaking and swirling, peeking and curling back into my troubled
mind.
Everyone has felt pangs of sympathy for other living creatures. We are seized by
the predicament of a scraggly stray, or moved by the loneliness of quirky people
who never catch a break. But we wriggle free from any long-term effort through
token deeds that soothe the conscience, but do no lasting good. We quickly
identify reasons why we are not going to be able to rectify a sad or unjust
situation, and go on our merry way – congratulating ourselves for being so darned
compassionate! Why was this situation so different? The harder I tried to harden
my heart, the more the power of suggestion intensified my distress. When told
not to look at something, we feel compelled to look, and who hasn’t touched a

wall with a “wet paint” sign? I was overwhelmed with the poignant plight of
someone attempting a one-in-a-million cry for help. How feeble a hope, that
pushing pieces of paper through that narrow slot would have any result. If I could
have found the right strategy to forget the whole matter, I would have never
looked back. My sporadic forays past the fence became daily walks. I skipped
work in order to sit for hours in an old lawn chair behind a tree – focusing
binoculars on that miserable slot.
Finally, one day I froze mid-breath when I saw a tightly rolled paper the size of a
long cigar emerging from slot #2 of what looked to be the 4th floor. An unseen
palm forced it out into the breeze. A small squeaky sound escaped my throat as I
watched it flutter silently to the ground. I was stunned to see several other sheets
near the one that had just landed. How had I missed them?! In the coming days I
frantically considered how best to get my hands on those papers. I was surely
losing my mind, but not yet crazy enough to think a fishing rod and reel would
work. By now I had found that no electrical charge was surging through the links,
and I weighed the value of using wire cutters. I believe I would have done so in
the middle of the night except for the problem of someone seeing the damage
after the fact – ruining my chances of finding future notes. I thought of training a
small dog to do the fetching, but lots of obstacles became obvious to even my
fevered brain. Finally, I remembered my golf ball retriever. With its extendable
pole, I felt it could work. Taping an old rake handle to the end gave me 4 more
feet. I rolled duct tape around the end of my device – sticky side out and headed
back to the fence. (Style points: zero.) Before long I was face-down in the grass,
jabbing with my contraption.
“What’s up, butthole?!” I let out the quick abbreviated yell of one who almost
steps on a snake – high pitched and unmanly. I dropped my homemade gadget,
and stood up straight. I felt my face blush with embarrassment, and instantly I
was a 4th grader in the principal’s office all over again. The guard was a sloppy
man with a thick, graying moustache. Crusty traces of chewing tobacco were
visible at the corners of his mouth, and his belly unashamedly pushed against the
buttons of his brown shirt – with one having popped free to reveal an inch or so
of hairy white tummy. The uniform included a tarnished badge and other aging

accessories once worn with pride. The pistol in his hand, however, looked new
enough to me.
I began a rambling explanation that was either incoherent or brilliant. I
peppered my speech with words obscure enough to impress this man I deemed to
have a low IQ. I had an out-of-body experience as I heard myself jabber nervously.
I included the fact that I was fascinated with the America Penal System, and
thought I saw him grin as if to say, “Ha ha. What a funny word!” I told him I had
adopted this prison the way a person adopts a stretch of highway and becomes
responsible for its cleanliness. My discourse had one redeeming quality: It
conveyed the idea that I was willing to continue talking indefinitely. When
“Bellystache” raised his hand to interrupt, I pictured a Snickers bar in his locker
that had gone uneaten long enough. “How can I make you go away?” he asked. I
decided to go for broke – asking him if he would hand me those pieces of paper
over there. “I could pay you for your trouble,” I said, and laughed heartily enough
to show I was joking unless he did not want me to be joking. I guess Snickers are
expensive these days, because he glanced over his shoulder and held out his
hand. I had two twenties and five ones in my wallet, and watched incredulously as
his chubby fingers curled around the cash.
I sprinted home praying my wife would be away. When I saw that she wasn’t, I
thought of how much time and energy was being wasted trying to hide the
obsession. I decided she would just have to understand as I hurriedly cleared a
place on the dining room table – stacking and throwing things to the carpet.
Seeing her dumbfounded stare, I told her I would explain later. I tried to give her a
reassuring smile as I walked her out of the room, but her expression showed me
my fake smile looked more like a frozen snarl. After first using a pencil to reveal
the words weeks ago, I had experimented with chalk and crayons before settling
on oil pastels. I had been delighted to see that the colors went onto the paper
smoothly, and were soft enough to be evened out with my fingers. They afforded
almost perfect readability to the cryptic messages.
I experienced a rush of energy known only to those attack an activity with
complete abandon. The story is told that golfer Ben Hogan once had a playing

partner who scored a hole-in-one. Such was his focus on his own game that it
became apparent after the round he was unaware of the other man’s feat. In
some ways, this sense of total surrender may be the purest form of joy and
release. I had arrived home with my treasures at dusk, and felt a surreal sensation
when I looked at my watch to see that it was after midnight. (I would have
guessed 9 pm!) My efforts yielded a puzzling, dark tale. I was still tormented by
missing information, but the main plot was clear.
Behind that 2nd slot was an expert in electronics and wiring. He had been asked
to consult on the feasibility of technology that would allow psychologists to
anonymously study those in solitary confinement. He was in the cell taking notes
on how to set up the system to provide clear audio and video. As he worked, he
wondered about the legality of such a system but reasoned that those who hired
him knew their stuff. He was a loner in his personal life and had not told anyone
where he was going that day. There was no family to wonder where he was, and
only the warden and one guard had known he was coming. When he heard the
door slam behind him, he had been irritated by the weak practical joke. He had
continued to design the surveillance system. But as minutes oozed into an hour,
he realized with a sickening feeling that nobody would carry such a joke this far.
He eventually lapsed into a fitful sleep, but when he awoke his sense of panic was
undeniable.
I started calling this man “Cooper” in my mind – a sick nod to the fact that he
was “cooped up”. At this point Cooper estimated that he had been there for over
a month, and was insane with the desire to be released. He was manic with
thoughts of how and why this had happened - wondering if the guard had been
an old enemy from his past that he had failed to recognize. Could the guard have
slammed the door after the warden left? Maybe this section of the prison was
empty, as plans for its new function were discussed. What if the guard had told
the warden that Cooper departed saying “no” to the work? The warden would
have had no reason to doubt what he was told. It would be assumed that Cooper
was gone. Of course, he yelled for hours at a time, and screamed for help when
the tin food tray with one tan paper towel slid into the room at mealtimes.
Naturally, the person(s) bringing the food ignored his rants. He gave a small, bitter

laugh – realizing how much he probably sounded like every other person there.
Maybe a prisoner had found a way to push the door! Was it the old “misery loves
company” idea taken to a fiendish extreme? The idea that he could remain
unidentified seemed implausible, but no explanation made sense.
As I studied the writing, I thought that this was the loneliest story ever. I could
not sleep. For weeks I struggled to let it go. My wife overheard me talking to
myself, and gently asked what was wrong. I screamed “SHUT UP!” with such force
that she recoiled as if she had been slapped. Even in my hysterical state, I could
see my own faulty logic. The damage I was doing was not worth this – even if
Cooper’s situation was exactly as I imagined it to be. I consoled myself that I was
not yet totally crazy, because I did want my old life back. I am told that mountain
climbers reach a point of no return where climbing down becomes so dangerous,
the only way off the mountain is up. I had reached that point, and it was actually a
relief to give myself over to the project so fully that I was free of all
encumbrances. With my wife now staying with her parents, I settled into a steady
rhythm – like a distance runner. I was “all in” as the poker phrase describes, and I
tried to remember which football team had adopted that slogan. I thought sadly
of how much better I would have done in other aspects of life with such singlemindedness. But I had also seen fanaticism ruin lives, so I pondered how a person
could find the right balance, and how one could channel such fervor in wise
directions.
I chose the plan I felt would give me the greatest chance for success. I had to
become part of the prison’s inner circle. I shudder to look back and think of how I
weighed the value of being a guard versus that of being an inmate. For one
nightmarish night I wrestled with the idea of getting myself arrested. The part of
me that wasn’t totally bonkers argued that I couldn’t dictate which prison would
become my home, and argued that as a prisoner I would not be able to help
Cooper anyway. I applied for the job of guard twice over the next four weeks
before finally getting a call. Getting advice from an old buddy who had once been
a cop, I navigated the screening/hiring process with a daring combo of patience,
lies, and a risky act of forgery. I tried to grow a Fu Manchu moustache when I
found I would be starting my new job the following week, but the peach fuzz

results did not speak of intimidation, so I shaved it off. My first three weeks on
duty were spent getting to know my way around the facility, and trying to learn all
the unwritten rules of interaction. My duties never took me above the 2nd floor,
and I restrained myself from asking too many questions. In my wild obsession,
there was a curious aptitude for patience.
As months passed, I developed a rapport with many key figures, and learned
more about procedures. I worried that coming from the inside of the building I
would not be able to identify which cell represented Slot #2 from the outside, but
I worked through several anticipated problems. I became exhilarated to think that
the ordeal could soon be over, and wondered ruefully what could be salvaged
from the ruins of my life. I went to my boss and asked about the possibility of
taking on duties in the solitary confinement section – having learned that this
really was how the 4th floor was being used. I remembered as a kid wondering
why solitary was considered such a punishment – to be isolated from all the
brutality meted out by the other inmates. Based on prison movies I had seen,
being alone seemed like a pretty good deal to me. My supervisor ignored my
request for so long that I thought he had forgotten. Finally, one day I casually
asked “Have you given any more thought to ….you know….” and silently pointed
up – portraying a casual grin. “Sure!” he said casually.
After a sketchy description of the schedule and procedures, I was given a
jangling key ring to the top floor, undoubtedly called “The Penthouse” by those
hoping to be ironic. How original! Within an hour, I was walking down the hall,
trying to look like a man putting in a boring night’s work. As I peeked into the cell,
I had to remind myself to breathe. And there he was! He was hunched over a
small, metal table. He was white, and seemed to be dangerously thin and frail –
with a sense of deformity I could not identify. An infuriating odor seeped through
the slot used for the food tray. His hair was long and twisted in a half-hearted
attempt at dread locks. Rapunzel indeed!
He wrote furiously with an ink pen on white notebook paper. A flush of
understanding widened my eyes as I realized that he was bearing down on a
paper towel to cushion the hardness of the tabletop. But why a different sheet for

every page? OCD? Superstition? Then he sensed that I was there, asking “Who is
it?”
I turned the key and entered.
“What the frick?! You caint come in here! I ain’t getting time added cause a
stinkin guard don’t know the rules!!!!”
“Wait…Just wait…I need to talk to you. I can help you. You aren’t supposed to be
in here, are you?”
“Crap no, I ain’t! I’m sposed to be on a date with Cayree Frickin Undawood, you
mowron!”
“Why are you here?”
“I beat an old sucker to death with a lug wrench. Give me one and I’ll give a
demonstration!”
“Do you install electronics?”
“What the …Why are you here?! Oh my Lord! Where did you read that? You caint
go through my trash!”
“Why were you pushing paper towels through that slot?”
“I’m a neat freak, dude. It’s a quirk. You gonna get me for litterin? Put me in jail?!”
“I came to help you.”
There was a moment of shocked, pure silence as I waited. Slowly the
understanding of the situation formed in Cooper’s brain.
“I don’t believe it. You thought that crap was true! I was tryin to write a book, you
re-tard! OH HAHAHAHA! I’m choking! I caint breathe!
He was still howling and pointing as I locked the door and walked down the hall.
A little laugh sounded like a cough in the back of my throat. Suddenly, I pivoted
and fired a vicious punch at a brick wall. I heard and felt my wrist snap and twist

grotesquely – small splinters of bone jutting through the skin. I reached
underneath with my left hand to support it as I unsteadily jogged through the
maze of halls. I heard startled remarks like “Dude, what happened?!” as guards
turned to see me. I fumbled for the ID badge that allowed me to walk through the
metal detector and out the front door to the parking lot. I slumped into my car
and exhaled slowly before gingerly pulling my cell phone from the cluttered
console. I dreaded the next few hours – knowing that the wrist which was
mercifully numb now would be hurting in Living Technicolor soon. I wondered
about permanent damage, and thought absently of some of the tasks facing me in
the coming weeks as I found out how much could be salvaged from the mess I
had made of my life. But for now, my goals were simple, and I snorted at the
realization that I felt inexplicably calm. For now, all I had to do was dial a nine and
two ones. The thought of professionals coming to take care of me felt comforting
beyond words. I was halfway into a dozing dream when I heard the ambulance in
the distance.

Chuck Grovenstein
105 Ashford Circle
LaGrange, Ga. 30240
grovensteincharles@gmail.com
(706) 402 - 6492


