Julia had just been laid off by her tax preparation firm and Sugar--Julia’s mother
preferred to be called Sugar by everyone, including Julia--was between husbands. “What
better time,” Sugar cooed into the telephone, “for a little mother-daughter bonding?”
“How?” Julia said. Cautiously. Bonding with Sugar usually ended up making
Julia feel less like her mother’s daughter, not more.
“Road trip!” Sugar said. “My treat!”
“Actually, I need to concentrate on finding some temp work,” Julia said.
“Bullshit! We’ve both just come through horrible ordeals. We deserve this.”
Julia hadn’t considered losing her job such a horrible ordeal. It happened every
year. And Sugar's divorces were pretty much regular events also. Sugar's divorce from
husband number seven, a pudgy, sweet little man who owned a two-store hardware chain
in Fresno, had been amicable. Julia had liked Seven but Sugar was now concentrating on
Possible Eight, a middle-aged chiropractor from Sacramento. Possible Eight had a condo
in Incline Village at Lake Tahoe.
“Don’t pack a thing,” Sugar told her. Sugar already had access to Possible Eight’s
credit cards. “We’ll get whole new wardrobes while we’re up there – aprËs ski stuff. You
know, tight stirrup pants and those furry snow bunny boots.”
“It’s almost June,” Julia said. She didn’t want to think about tight stirrup pants.
She had spent the last five months sitting in an office where the boss brought in a box of
doughnuts every Tuesday and Friday. Julia had a weakness for doughnuts. Lately, she’d
noticed a definite ledge of fat running around the top of her thighs, as if instead of eating
a doughnut or two, she had simply stepped into a giant one like an inner tube and rolled it
up her legs where it remained, wedged under her rear end. It wasn’t a big ledge; put in
proportion, it was only as big a ledge as the kind people crept out onto in high rises to
commit suicide from, their toes and the balls of their feet suspended over the drop. Still,
if you pulled a pair of stretch pants onto the high rise, the bulge of the ledge would be
definitely noticeable. "Nobody will be skiing in August," Julia said.
“Just this once,” Sugar sighed, “try not to spoil everything with your negative
attitude.”
Julia couldn’t help thinking that her mother often confused reality with a negative
attitude. And the worst reality of all was, of course, Julia herself. Sugar was glamorous.
Julia was mousy. Sugar’s hair was a creamy blonde. Julia’s was a washed out brown.
Sugar was tall and shapely. Julia was short and fond of pastry.
They both had the same distinctively wide, icy blue eyes and a nose that swooped
up at the tip like a pixie. But that only made things worse. Julia knew she was the only
girl in America whose mother was offended when somebody asked if the two of them
were sisters.
“C’mon,” Sugar said, “live a little. We’ll go to a casino. Have fun. You used to
like to have fun.”
Julia supposed Sugar was referring back to when she was six and enjoyed being
pushed on a swing. Still, Julia had always wanted to go to a casino. She thought she
might be good at gambling, being an accountant. Wasn’t it all just numbers? Odds and
averages? She imagined herself in the kind of evening gown that might conceal her ledge,
a hoop skirt perhaps, leaning across the craps table, murmuring, “Come on, seven.” She’d
need to read up on why she’d be murmuring that.

Two days later her mother pulled up in front of Julia’s apartment building driving
a new green minivan.
“Where’s your Mustang?” Julia asked. Seven had given Sugar a classic ’67
Mustang, a glossy powder blue with exhaust pipes so loud the noise loosened your back
molars.
“The chiropractor’s got children, can you believe it?” Sugar said the word
"children" the way she might say he had herpes. “I traded the Mustang in. I’m cultivating
a more domestic image.”
Julia threw her purse into the pristine backseat. Her mother did look more
motherly than usual. She was wearing knee length Capri pants and white sandals. She had
whittled the two-inch red talons she normally sported into something resembling
functional human fingernails. Her face looked freshly scrubbed and her hair was swept
back in a ponytail and tied with a scarf. She looked like a 1950’s movie star playing
housewife for the cameras.
“You look nice,” Julia said, without thinking. “Pretty.”
Her mother narrowed her eyes. Julia braced herself. Compliments from women

always made her mother suspicious and mean, even if the woman giving the compliment
was just frumpy old Julia. “What the hell is going on with your thighs?”
Julia slid into the front seat and scrunched down. “I’ve gained a couple of
pounds.”
“A couple of pounds?” Sugar said, pulling away from the curb. “You look like
you’re smuggling drugs in your pants. We’ll be lucky if we don’t get stopped at the
border coming back into California.”
“They’re not looking for drugs at those border checks,” Julia mumbled, “they’re
looking for plants.”
“That’s ridiculous,” Sugar said, rolling her eyes. “Why would anyone smuggle
plants in their pants?”

Sugar insisted on shopping as soon as they hit Tahoe. “There are two basic
functions of clothing,” Sugar told the tiny, chic salesgirl at a tiny, chic boutique.
“Enhancement,” she pointed to herself, “or camouflage,” she waved her hand at Julia.
Julia stared up at the ceiling. She preferred shopping at the big box stores where
she didn’t need to try anything on or look in a mirror. She didn’t need to be reminded that
she had lumpy areas.
“She shouldn’t wear high-waisted pants like that,” the salesgirl nodded.
“She has reasonable calves,” Sugar said, lifting up one of her own legs to admire
it. Sugar’s leg was lean and brown. Julia imagined her own legs, white as Wonder bread,
possibly not recently shaved, quivering like aspic under her jeans.
“She should probably stick to skirts,” the salesgirl said.

Page 5 of 15
Living, a Little
“Short skirts,” Sugar said. She had apparently abandoned the aprËs ski idea.
“Or short shorts?”
“Skorts! And high heels.” Sugar clapped her hands. “And something fun and
playful on top.”
“Um,” Julia said, growing alarmed. There was that word again. Julia wasn’t sure
what fun clothing was but it didn’t sound like something she wanted to wear.
“Just this once,” Sugar said, “let me dress you in something flattering. Live a
little.”
Fun turned out to be a fuzzy and fringed lavender sweater with a keyhole cutout
strategically placed so that it revealed most of Julia’s breasts. This, paired with a pair of
white shorts and strappy platform sandals, was so much fun Julia was worried that people
might burst out laughing when they saw her.
“I love it,” Sugar said.
“You can’t be serious,” Julia said. “I look like Cookie Monster's older sister.”
“No, I do love it,” Sugar said, chewing her lip. “I’d wear that in a heartbeat.”
Sugar looked down at her own new outfit, staid khaki slacks with a crisp crease and a
flowered blouse. Sugar didn’t look happy but she was open to change. Julia had always
admired how her mother seemed able to do whatever it took to adapt to new situations, to
just go with the flow. A chameleon--that was Sugar. And Julia was the constant—
constantly boring, constantly plain, constantly plodding through life. The merry-go-round
to Sugar’s roller coaster.
Julia turned to look at herself in the mirror again. One thing was certain. No one
would notice her ledge of fat. Long hairs from the sweater floated up, tickling the

Page 6 of 15
Living, a Little
underside of her chin. What poor animal produced this kind of yarn? Her breasts looked
like two hairless baby bunnies curled up inside an Easter basket.
Maybe her mother was right; maybe Julia did have a negative attitude.
“Okay,” Julia sighed, "why not?”

Julia was reasonably sure that no one would give her a second glance at a casino.
She'd watched television. She'd seen a James Bond movie or two. Casinos were full of
eccentric types--Elvis impersonators, gangsters' molls, just-married brides with veils,
tiaras, and hot pants, drunk college boys sporting backward baseball caps.
So she was surprised when the North Shore casino that Sugar took her to was
dignified, understated, with an older crowd. She guessed the average age to be seventyish. Everyone turned to stare at her. Julia felt like a furry lavender emu that had wandered
into a rest home. She found walking any distance in her new “fun” sandals difficult.
During the short walk from the parking lot to the casino, Julia’s ankles had buckled and
actually made contact with the ground several times. Sugar had insisted they keep their
purses in the car–"Only take what you can afford to lose,” she said--so Julia had wrapped
a twenty dollar bill around her cell phone and tucked it between the bunnies where the
little package shifted every time Julia moved her arms. The short shorts kept bunching up
into the "V" of her crotch; it seemed unladylike to adjust them in public and yet
impossible to leave them crammed up where they were determined to go. Just placing
one foot in front of the other required the concentration of a plate spinner.
Sugar led Julia past the Black Jack tables, giving each one an expert glance. “We
should split up,” she said, tapping her finger against her lips. “I’ll meet up with you in

Page 7 of 15
Living, a Little
the bar in an hour. Live a little, goddamit.”
"Don't you dare leave me," Julia said, trying to grab Sugar's arm, but Sugar was
quick and Julia's cell phone took that moment to slip farther down between her breasts.
Sugar disappeared behind a bank of slot machines.
Julia staggered to the nearest stool and plopped down. The imitation leather
adhered itself immediately to her bare thighs. The beeps and chirps of hundreds of
machines whizzed around her like ricocheting bullets. It felt safer to just stay where she
was, what with the shorts and the shoes and the traveling cell phone situation. She would
just sit there until Sugar came back.
Julia studied the machine in front of her. There were rows of flashing electronic
images: palm trees, diamond rings, cars, cartoon rodents. Superimposed on the screen
was a spider web of blinking lines – triangles, squares and parallelograms that reminded
Julia of high school geometry. Julia had hated geometry.
“You can’t sit there,” a gravely voice called out. A gnome with red lipstick and
blindingly white teeth sat perched at a machine two stools away. A cigarette smoldered in
the ashtray in front of her.
“You can’t sit there,” the gnome croaked again. “That’s my friend’s machine. She
went to get change.” She pushed her glaring dentures out at Julia like she was sticking
out her tongue then snapped them back into her mouth.
“Baloney,” said a man coming up behind Julia. “She’s there now. You snooze,
you lose. You go for it, sweetie.”
Julia turned to look at him. He was middle-aged with thick glasses that magnified
his rheumy eyes to pie-sized proportions. He looked at Julia with something like

Page 8 of 15
Living, a Little
admiration though it might have been the effect of the glasses. He had called her
“Sweetie.” Julia felt like someone else, someone sexy and wild and worldly, someone
strangers wanted to talk with, flirt with. She raised a fluffy purple shoulder and smiled.
“Thank you,” she said. “I will go for it.”
There was a brief struggle as she reached through the keyhole in her sweater and
fought with the bunnies to relinquish her cell phone and the twenty-dollar bill. A small
army of diminutive men gathered out of nowhere to watch. “Need help?” the man with
the glasses said, and Julia threw her head back and emitted a series of yelps which she
hoped might be perceived as madcap laughter. A couple of the men applauded when she
pulled the money out and she bestowed upon them her biggest smile.
Out of the corner of her eye, she saw a man at the end of the row of machines. He
gazed at her with an inscrutable expression. He was younger, as in not over sixty; more
like thirty-something. He wore nice slacks and a short-sleeved shirt that showed off a pair
of tanned, muscular arms. He was handsome, in the square-jawed, thick-necked way of a
soldier. She tossed her hair like she’d seen her mother do when she knew a man was
watching.
She found the feeder for the twenty. Then she took a breath, inhaled one of the
long hairs from her sweater, choked a little, and pushed a big round button that read,
“Maximum Bet.”
The images on the screen shuddered and regrouped. The machine played a happy
tune and then went silent.
“What happened?” Julia said.
“You lost,” the gnome rasped.

Page 9 of 15
Living, a Little
“Tough luck,” the man with the glasses said slapping her heartily on her back. He
stared over her shoulder at her breasts. “Got any more cash down there?”
“No,” Julia said, feeling deflated and indignant at the same time.
“Want some?”
Julia peeled her thighs from the stool and wobbled to her feet. She did not like to
lose her hard-earned money, especially when she was currently out of work. She did not
like this man looking at her breasts like they were being served up to him for dinner. The
nice looking man was gone. She felt ridiculous, gangly, awkward, and half-naked. As if
on cue, Julia thought she heard her mother’s throaty laughter floating over the din of the
slot machines, mocking her. The unfairness of it all made her knees as weak as her
ankles.
“Excuse me,” Julia said and lurched away.

Julia found an empty table in a dark corner of the casino’s bar. The cocktail
waitress pursed her lips and stared pointedly at Julia’s ridiculous sweater. Julia told her
she was just waiting for somebody, pressing herself back into her seat until she all but
disappeared into the shadows. Julia knew how to be invisible.
There was no answer when Julia called her mom’s cell phone. She imagined
Sugar surrounded by every man in the casino, shrieking with laughter, the life of the
party. After forty-five minutes of hitting redial, Julia crept out of the bar and, sticking
close to the walls, staggered through the casino. Her mother had disappeared. Julia
hoped Sugar hadn't forgotten about her. Julia did not know the address of Possible
Eight’s condo, didn’t have any cab fare if she had the address, and didn’t have a key if

Page 10 of 15
Living, a Little
she had the cab fare.
Julia hobbled back into the bar. She thought both her ankles might be dislocated
and the sweater was giving her an itchy rash on the swath of exposed skin across her
chest. It was nearly midnight. Julia noticed that the bartender and the cocktail waitress
put their heads together as she walked past.
“I’m meeting someone,” she said again.
The bartender glared then turned and picked up a telephone. For customer service
employees, Julia thought, they seemed rather surly.
Before Julia reached her little table, her cell phone vibrated between her breasts.
“Where are you?” Julia spat into the phone.
“Goodness,” Sugar trilled and Julia knew instantly that her mother was not alone.
“Hello, darling. Guess who came up to Tahoe for the evening,” Sugar said. Julia waited.
“That’s right, Donald is here, can you believe it?”
“I want to leave,” Julia said. Donald must be Possible Eight, she surmised. Sugar
had probably known he was coming all along.
“Sweetheart,” Sugar purred, “Donald and I are going out to paint the town. Can
you find your own way to the condo?”
“No, I cannot find my way back.” Julia gripped the phone so hard her fingers
ached. “I don’t know where the condo is. And I have no money. You told me not to bring
any money.”
“Oh dear,” Sugar said. “Hold on.” Julia heard a hand placed over the mouthpiece
and the sound of Sugar’s muted voice. Sugar sounded like such a nice woman if she
wasn’t your own mother.

Page 11 of 15
Living, a Little
Sugar came back on the line. “Sweetie pie,” Sugar said, “John is going to run in to
the casino right now and give you some money for a cab get home. I described what
you’re wearing.” She paused then hissed. “Give us a half an hour before you head to the
condo.”
“What? No, I want to leave now.”
“He’s on his way,” Sugar said in a syrupy voice and hung up.
Instantly a man walked into the bar and approached the bartender who turned and
pointed to Julia. The man barreled toward her. Julia imagined that the prospect of being
with her mother was enough to make a man hurry. At least this guy could hurry. Her
mother typically liked overweight mama’s boys or frail widowers, soft men with money
who were overwhelmed by Sugar’s brand of oozing sensuality. Then, as he approached in
the dim light, Julia saw that it was the same man who had watched her lose her twenty
dollars earlier in the evening. He recognized her too. He smiled. Great, Julia thought. The
one guy in the whole place she had enjoying leering at her was going to be her new
stepfather. Could this night get any better?
“Hey,” Possible Eight said, leaning onto the table. “Can I buy you a drink?”
Julia was tired. It was late. Her ankles felt like she’d been shackled and hung
upside down. Her breasts itched.
“Look,” Julia said wearily, “we don’t have to have a conversation or anything. I’d
like to get out of here. And I realize you probably just want to get going.”
Possible Eight had started to pull out one of the chairs. He seemed taken aback for
a second. “Sure,” he said, taking his wallet from his back pocket. “So how much money
will it take?”

Page 12 of 15
Living, a Little
“Oh, I don’t know,” Julia said. “What do you think?”
“You must have some idea,” Possible Eight said. “Just tell me and I’ll give it to
you.”
“I guess twenty should be enough. And I’ll need you to write down the address.”
The man looked up at the ceiling, and then, almost reluctantly, pulled out a bill.
He handed her the twenty with his left hand and, with his right hand, he pulled her to her
feet. “You’re under house arrest. You need to come with me.”
He grabbed Julia high up under one arm and marched her past the bartender, who
waggled his finger at her. “Don’t you know anything? You can’t solicit in here,” he
sneered. A grey-haired, tall, and very distinguished looking man was standing at the end
of the bar, staring at her with expression of horror. Julia had just a moment to watch
Possible Eight’s mouth drop open before she was escorted forcibly out.

“That wasn’t even a real policeman who arrested you,” Sugar said the next
morning as she merged onto I-80 at Truckee. “He was just a casino detective.”
“I know,” Julia acknowledged. “He apologized.”
“It was all just a misunderstanding,” Sugar said. “Who would have thought
Donald would turn out to be such a priss?”
“Sugar,” Julia said, “you can’t really blame him for being upset.” She leaned her
head back against the headrest. She had barely slept the night before. She had been forced
to wait in a little office in the basement of the casino. She was still wearing her fuzzy
purple sweater but she had taken off the tortuous shoes and now she stretched her legs
and extended her toes until she felt her metatarsals pop.

Page 13 of 15
Living, a Little
“He was so judgmental,” Sugar sniffed. “He said he couldn’t have someone like
you around his children. Well, how about I can’t have someone like him around my
child?”
“It’s okay,” Julia said. “He doesn’t know me. And he doesn’t know you, not
really.” Oddly, she felt kind of happy. Two amazing things had happened—someone, no
several people, had mistaken her for a prostitute which was kind of flattering in a strange
way and her mother had chosen her over a potential husband.
“I feel like I just dodged a bullet,” Sugar said. “What if I had married that man? I
mean, look at me.” She threw her hands up in the air for a moment to gesture to her
clothes, then her hair, then she adjusted the rearview mirror so she could see herself
before straightening the steering wheel again as the van drifted onto the shoulder. “What
was I thinking? I hate these clothes. I miss my Mustang. Let this be a lesson from me to
you, Julia. Don’t let anyone change you. Just be who you are." She sighed. "Now I've got
to start all over again."
Julia studied her mother. Sugar was chewing on her lower lip. Julia could see tiny
lines around Sugar's lips and an area along the line of her chin where the skin was
beginning to sag. Her wrists looked fragile. She had never held a job for more than a few
months. She couldn't balance a checkbook. She had never had to negotiate with a car
salesman or placate an angry client. She had no marketable skills, beyond being pretty.
Her mother would always need someone to take care of her.
"Men," Sugar said. "You can't live with them...." Her voice trailed off.
"Maybe," Julia said, "you should take a break"
Sugar cocked her head, listening.

Page 14 of 15
Living, a Little
Julia took a deep breath. "You could come stay with me for a while," and the
moment the words were in the air between them, Julia could see the two of them in her
little apartment. Julia would sleep on the couch and her mother could have the bedroom.
Her mother would be there when she got home after work. They could cook dinner
together and go to the movies. Go shopping.
Shopping. What was she thinking?
Sugar took her eyes off the road and gave Julia a long, thoughtful stare.
Julia stared back. If her mother sensed fear, there was no telling what could
happen.
“You know what we should do?" Sugar said finally, jerking the steering wheel.
"We should trade tops. I've got a date later.”
"What?" The van lurched and then straightened. "Mom! How did you..." Julia
began.
"Sugar."
"Sugar," Julia repeated.
“That sweater will look better on me.” Sugar started unbuttoning her shirt.
“Wait…what?” Julia said. “Now? You’re driving. And we're not remotely the
same size.”
The van swerved as Sugar let go of the wheel, thrashing her arm around to pull it
from the sleeve. Someone honked. “Come on,” Sugar said.
“I’m naked under here,” Julia said, crossing her arms over her chest as if there
was a possibility that Sugar might just tear it off of her.
“Well, so am I,” Sugar said. “What’s the big deal?” A convertible packed with

Page 15 of 15
Living, a Little
hooting teenaged boys slowed in the next lane. Sugar handed Julia her blouse. “Live a
little.”


