It was that morning that Celia had decided, at the age of 45, she was going to retire. She had
decided that she could no longer go to someone’s home every morning to care for an old person. She
could no longer spend her days tending to the needs of someone who was on that slow but
unmistakably downward rocky path toward death. She could no longer watch someone furrow her
wrinkled brow as she barked a command. She could no longer feel exhausted from focusing her mind on
anticipating a need before it’s spoken. Unburdened, weightless, she would discover her true self again.
She told her husband at breakfast. She said she wanted time to herself, time to try singing again,
really singing. She had sung everyday these past years, mostly to her children as they grew up, or when
she was driving alone, but it was only singing for herself. She needed more. She knew Kent thought this
was just a phase, a symptom of the oncoming of menopause. She could start slowly by joining a choir.
“What, a church choir?” he snorted, and laughed, nearly choking on his bagel. They hadn’t been to
church since their youngest’s first holy communion. She looked at him silently, lacking the emotional
energy to generate a comparably snide response. Music had been a part of her identity when she was
young—completely defining her, in fact, at that time. She sang all through high school, in the school
chorus, in the Madrigal singers, and then toward the end, in a band with her friends. She had made it
into the all-state chorus two years in a row. It seemed to be all she thought about back then. “All your
eggs are in one basket,” her mother would say, when Celia talked about studying music in college.
Money wasn’t there for music school, so she enrolled in the local community college, where she decided
to study nursing but keep pursuing her music on the side. Neither dream was realized: she never got her
nursing degree and she stopped performing when she met Kent.
Kent worked repairing small engines. Surprisingly, he made a pretty good living. He managed,
through a connection he’d made with a local politician by way of his military service, to gain the local
Sears store’s service contract. Thanks to the shoddy workmanship in many lawnmowers and
snowblowers the past five years, there was a steady stream of work. His business had outgrown their
two-car garage and was now based out of a local spot that used to be a cabinetmaker’s workshop.
Kent’s dream had been to build racecars. He had studied at Universal Technical Institute with that goal
in mind. But, he spent more time there taking things apart rather than building them and once his
certificate was in hand, he realized he had spent two years taking classes and had never designed, or
built, or even dreamed of, anything new or anything that hadn’t already been built. Celia would
sometimes stop at the shop on her way home from work, and she would see his large frame oddly
compacted as he bent over a mower engine, so intent, and wonder if he was happy doing what he was
doing.
She sighed, suddenly feeling the excess weight she carried on her middle, the stiffness in her
neck, the tightness in her lower back. She turned back toward the counter, resting her upper body
weight on her left hand as she reached up to grab a vase from an upper cabinet. Mrs. Martin was going
to want tulips today and last week’s roses were still vibrant, so the tulips would need their own vase.
Mrs. Martin had plenty of vases and would surely want Celia to use a particular one for the tulips, but
Celia needed to bring one with her to the market (Mrs. M never liked Celia to bring home the flowers
wrapped in paper; she didn’t want people to see that these were supermarket flowers and not from the
florist), and Mrs. M. always made a big fuss about Celia not breaking one of her good vases in transit.
“I am going to stop at Walmart on the way home.” She smiled to herself, her green eyes
brightening just a bit underneath her too-long blond bangs. The new Pioneer Woman dishware was now
in the store: a beautiful spring pattern with the most magnificent blue color, and the pattern was named
“Celia.” When she saw the email with that seemingly providential news, she was filled with a wonderful
sense of hope. The “Pioneer Woman” on television lived a life so different from hers, but they shared a
sense of wanting to fill life’s little cracks with elements of simple beauty. She would buy just one dish
today, with the hope of buying more over the month. “Retirement” was going to put a bit of a wrench in
that plan, but she had set aside a small chunk of money ahead of time, a cushion in their checking
account, to cover what had been her usual contribution to their expenses: groceries, gifts for the kids,
little items for the home, and there was some leftover for her new dishes.
Kent didn’t respond as he read the newspaper and continued eating, but he did nod to suggest
he’d heard her. She looked over at him as she placed the vase carefully in her Commerce Bank tote bag,
hung from the back of her chair at the table. She wasn’t sure what she felt toward him at that moment:
it was surely a sense of caring, a detached feeling of looking after. But was that something he truly
inspired in her or was that sort of feeling just a part of who she was? She was a caregiver, had been all
her life. Even when singing was her passion, when she sang with her band, she looked after each of her
band members. The guitarist Tommy lost his mom their junior year. It was Celia who went over to his
house everyday to just sit with him and listen to him talk or just cry, wondering if they would ever play
music again. Celia had always been a good listener, someone able to see things from the other person’s
point of view, or at least she always made the effort to do so. Somehow, she felt a compulsion to try and
make things right, to make another person feel better. And thus far, that compulsion within her had not
met with any limitation.
She held the tote bag in one hand as she bent to kiss Kent on the forehead. “Have a good day.
Be safe. See you tonight.” She felt the warmth of his skin on her cool lips, an affirmation of his

otherness. This fueled a sudden sense of urgency in her love for Kent, odd after all these years, that
reflected how much she wanted their love could be a counterpoint to the step-by-step rhythm of her life
as a caregiver.
He looked up. “Be safe too. Say hello to Ursula for me.” His nickname for Mrs. Martin, after the
evil character in The Little Mermaid, always made her laugh and cringe at the same time. She sighed, “I
will” and turned and walked out through the garage door.
As she drove to Mrs. M’s, Celia began to plot how she would break the news to her. When she
brings her lunch tray? She imagined Mrs. Martin as incredulous: “What will you do? How will you and
Kent manage?” She would surely project her need, her fears, on to Celia like a headlight on a darkened
stretch of highway.
She thought about the vases. She pictured them all lined up on the pantry shelves, more than
Mrs. Martin would ever use. Who needs more than 30 vases? Yes, some had sentimental value, a gift
from a friend or a souvenir from a special trip, but not all. Letting go. It’s the most difficult thing to do
and seems particularly difficult for some elderly people. Why? After a lifetime of some many actual
experiences, people known and loved, times of joy, pain, hard work, fun, why do material things still
matter? Is there a feeling that the experiences did not amount to enough to create an identity?
Experiences are fleeting, that’s true, and maybe, as one approaches the end of life, those experiences
feel like sand that has slipped through one’s fingers. Holding a vase feels like you are holding on to your
life, holding on to who you are and who you have been.
Celia would never be as wealthy, never have as many things that set the life of luxury above the
life of necessity, but somehow, she felt no resentment toward Mrs. Martin, at least not in this regard. It
wasn’t that she felt anyone’s life was pre-determined, or that any one person deserved something just
because she was born into certain circumstances. Celia found a certain hope in the idea of wealth and

luxury because it somehow expanded the scope of the world for her. It broadened the horizon, a
horizon distant, but it also created a vast and wonderful space to live within, a space of possibility. She
could simply exist in that space without having to know with conviction how much her own life might
grow or expand.
Celia knew it was safe to stay, still, in that space, but she wanted more. To step forward, closer
to the horizon, to claim more of the vastness of possibility as her own. At the same time, she realized
that she could guide her mind to settle in a place where she can feel content, even happy. She just
needed a sign to show her whether to stay or go. Maybe she was crazy to want this change. Change in
people’s lives can be harsh, violent, like losing someone you love or enduring a painful illness or injury.
Why would she deliberately bring this upon herself?
As she drove on to the highway to Mrs. M’s apt, Celia’s mind continued to wander, as it usually
did every morning, but today’s grey and sullen sky made her feel more pensive. A slow welling of anxiety
began to make her chest feel warm—probably just another hot flash brewing—but she attributed this
particular wave to the impending challenge. Her life had always been so pragmatically planned and
carefully guided. Making such a bold decision felt incredibly empowering and utterly frightening at the
same time. Her work identity was her whole identity; it was who she was through to her very center, a
caregiver, a follower of instructions and commands, all steering the universe (so it seemed to her
sometimes) to the greater good, or to at least a measured equilibrium. But, she knew, deep-down, that
power was not hers to hold.
Celia recalled the painful image of her son when he was a teenager nervously touching the top
of his head, over and over, repeatedly moving certain locks of hair in and out of place and then
smoothing them down each time. It was the clearest sign of his anxiety, anxiety that he had managed to
find a way to cope with on his own, and the behavior seemed to be a harmless manifestation of

something that could have been much more debilitating for him. His brave struggle to cope on his own,
represented in this image of his repeated gesture, reminded her of the limits of her ability to be a
caretaker. She could not comfort him enough to calm his anxieties. She could not fix it for him.
She decided, abruptly, to stop at Dunkin Donuts for a coffee—she only had fifteen minutes, but,
anyway, who cares—she was quitting her job!
She thought about using the drive-thru but decided to park and go inside instead. Each moment
of this day seemed to punctuate sentences in a narrative that she was watching unfold before her. The
moments framed her thoughts in segments. Celia looked across the store as she entered, and an older
man caught her eye as he bent to sweep a straw wrapper into a long-handled dust pan. As her glance
lingered, he looked up, and she smiled. He paused a second and then smiled back, their common
humanity acknowledged. He was taking care of things too.
As she ordered her coffee, she looked over at the donuts and other baked goods, thinking,
“should I buy something to bring to Mrs. M?” Buying a diabetic a donut, on the day Celia planned to quit
her job taking care of her, seemed both kind and cruel. She bought three, one for Mrs. M, one for Kent,
and one for herself. She knew it was terrible to eat a donut, more terrible for Kent who himself was
borderline diabetic. But, when life is so stressful (and often sad or lonely) food is such a comfort. In that
way, she knew what Mrs. M felt, eating foods she shouldn’t eat, drinking her nightly bourbons.
As she reached in her purse to grab her wallet, a voice called, “Celia!” Jolted by the sound, Celia
turned toward the voice, behind her at a table. It was her neighbor, Katie, with her young son and a man
Celia did not recognize. “Hi Katie,” she called, and she pulled $20 from her wallet and handed it to the
stone-faced bright red-haired lady behind the counter. She grabbed her change and walked toward the
door, stopping at Katie’s table. “Good morning, Liam!” she said brightly to Katie’s son, “not in school
today?”

“He’s got strep. Again.” Katie sighed. “We just needed to get out of the house for a bit.” Katie
did not introduce the man, but on closer inspection, he seemed familiar. His hair was chestnut brown
with flecks of grey, cut short but still a bit shaggy. He looked up only for a minute.
Was he the guy who works at Pep Boys, at the repair counter? Or, does he own the pizza shop
on Route 71? Or was he the lawyer who works in the office next door to the tax accountant? She had
that odd feeling when you see someone you know is familiar but you can’t place him. Outside of
whatever was his normal context, he was a mystery.
“On your way to work?” Katie asked looking up from her iced coffee.
“Yes. But I am quitting my job this morning.” She blurted it out without even realizing it, and
with those words came a tumble of thoughts: maybe Katie could take the position for her? She had been
a home health aide, of sorts, before Liam was born (really just a housekeeper who ended up taking care
of an older man who’s house she cleaned). Maybe Katie knew someone else who could take the job?
She was jolted out of her panicked reverie by Katie’s friend looking up again and asking, “don’t I know
you?” Celia gazed down at him, and his face slowly became familiar, like a blurry image coming into
focus. It was Tommy Bangs, the guitarist in her high school band, still slim and lanky, just a bit worn
around the edges. “Tommy!” She instinctively placed her hands on the top of her head as if to say,
through gesture, “how did you recognize me, an older, fatter, wrinkled, bottle-blond?” (she had been
dark-haired when a teenager).
“How have you been?” he asked sweetly.
“WHERE have you been?” she exclaimed back. She had to sit down. Mrs. M could wait just a bit
longer.
Katie was stunned, “you two know each other?”

“We were in a band together. In high school. Close to 30 years ago,” Tommy laughed, and his
blue eyes lit up as he looked back and forth between them.
“You left town. You basically fell off the face of the earth. I tried to find you on Facebook and
that turned out to be impossible. There are a lot of Tommy Bangs on Facebook. Where you’ve been?”
Celia felt like she had just stepped into a parallel universe. Mrs. M and her home and her flowers in their
specific vases began to fall back in her mind, fade from view.
Tommy took a sip of his coffee and suddenly looked mildly uncomfortable, as if he wished he
hadn’t said anything to her at all. “It’s a long story. You know I left to go to school to study psychology.
Ended up staying in Philly and working for an educational non-profit. Got married. Had two kids. They
grew up then we divorced. I quit my job. Yesterday.”
Katie chimed in, “he married my cousin. Or should I say divorced my cousin,” she chuckled.
“He’s Liam’s godfather.”
Celia barely registered what Katie was saying. She was stunned by Tommy’s rapid revelations,
particularly by the last thing he said about quitting his job. Celia was fascinated, maybe a little obsessed,
with coincidences. How was it that she should run into Tommy, someone so connected to the past she
sought to recover, and that here he was back in town, having done the very thing she had decided to do
this morning. He was back in his old hometown and surely was as ready as she to start again. What
could all this mean? Her mind raced. Now, her path became clearer: she and Tommy could get together
to jam, just informally at first, maybe write some songs, then start getting some local gigs. They had
gotten along really well when they were young; Kent would even like him. She and Tommy could
practically pick up where they left off—that last gig at their bassist’s house at the shore, a late-summer
goodbye party after senior year. It was so far back but suddenly seemed real again, the smells of the
beach, the sounds of their playing, the feeling she had singing those 1980s cover songs.

The sun began to burn through the morning haze, and she felt its warmth through the store’s
front window. She could do this. They could do this. Her heart began to pound.
“Yeah, so he’s here to say goodbye,” Katie continued, “Liam’s always been his special buddy, so
Tommy wanted to visit before leaving. We’re driving him to the airport in an hour.”
“Wait, what?” Celia swallowed hard.
“Yep, heading out to LA,” Tommy said without any hint of the apology Celia now ridiculously felt
due. “Gotta start over. Gonna look into a possible music licensing venture with an old friend from
Drexel.”
Celia just stared back at him.
Tommy reached across the table and touched Celia’s arm. “I’m so glad I ran into you. What are
you up to? You look great. I hope you’re still singing. Just on the drive up yesterday ‘Purple Rain’ came
on the radio and of course I thought of you. And the band. Turned it up real loud. Felt great.”
Celia stood up, “I-I am great thanks,” she stammered, “yep, still singing away. Even sing every day at my
job caring for an old lady down at Seacrest.” The ridiculousness of that notion stung her to the core. She
wobbled as she stepped back from the table.
“Is that the job you’re quitting today?” Katie asked with a deliberate slowness that seemed
mindlessly cruel.
“Um, well, yeah, but not sure how that will all pan out. Better go, I’m late.” She bent down and
gave Tommy a quick hug across the shoulders. She realized as she did this that he had not moved to hug
her or even stand up when he first realized it was Celia. Maybe that’s the sign she should have been
reading. “Good luck in LA, Tommy, you’ll do great. Bye, Liam. Feel better. Catch you later, Katie.”

She turned and hurried out the door and to her car. As she got in, her legs felt leaden, her mind
swirled in a muddy puddle. What now? She started the car and drove back out on to Route 47, heading
toward Seacrest. The rapid pace of her thoughts slowed to an almost imperceptible crawl. No thoughts,
just a deep feeling of loss. She wanted to cry, but could not. The meaning she had always found in
coincidences, in what she thought of as “signs,” was really a yearning for hope, a grasping for a rope up
to some higher ground. This trust in life’s moments as meaningful relieved her of the responsibility of
creating her own path. She could have seen those signs as affirmation that her own willful choices were
the right ones, but instead, she had always surrendered her will to the fate that these moments seemed
to offer.
“No,” she said aloud, taking several slow deep breaths. On a final exhale, she laughed. “Well,
actually, yes.”
She pulled into her usual spot at Seacrest. Just as she was about to turn off the car, “Purple
Rain” came on the radio. Her tears flowed. As the song ended, she grabbed the donuts and went to grab
the tote bag with the vase but hesitated and then left it on the front seat. She got out of the car and
walked into the late morning sun.


