“That smoke shuts ‘em right up, doesn’t it?” observed Ronny as he kicked the door
shut on his orange Datsun b210. Balancing himself between two cat carriers, he walked
through the propped-up garage door toward the old picnic table where Tony was
hunched over a stretched-out, unconscious Siamese cat. Tony was scraping a men’s
disposable razor through some soapy fur on the cat’s neck, snapping his wrist to shake
loose wet clumps of hair after each quick pull.
Tony paused to suck a drag from the cigarette in his left hand, carefully pinched
between the index finger and thumb. “That it does, my friend.” Tony exhaled. “That it
does.” Ronny passed behind Tony and walked a few more paces to the back wall of the
shack. He slid the two carriers into the gap in the second row. The cats peered through
the carriers’ metal grated doors into the smoky room, wide-eyed.
Stacked in two rows of two, the dusty purple and beige crates were arranged
face-out for easy access. To the left, the yellowed sand of the fenced litter pen was lumpy
under the scatter of brown and rust-colored feces on its surface. Four cats were visible
inside, one yanking its nails free from the pen’s screen door. The white mini freezer to the
right sat under a beat-up boombox playing Lynyrd Skynyrd through its one working
speaker. A pile of pizza boxes, litter boxes, fast food bags, and assorted refuse sat heaped
against the wall. An open box of blue rubber weather balloons lay on its side in the middle
of the room, a dented tank of helium lay next to it. The word “syringes” was scrawled in
black marker on the lid of the open tackle box on the table next to Tony and the
motionless cat.
“It’s bag time, baby," Ronny said walking over to the table. He leaned over the cat’s
head and pointed to a dime-sized pool of blood on its neck where Tony had nicked its pink
skin. “If I was on as much ketamine as you are right now, I’d probably be jumping around
busting light bulbs out of their sockets with my stupid head.”
Tony looked up briefly from swabbing the skin with an alcohol-soaked cotton ball.
“You can shut up now.” Ronny clapped his hands together once and chuckled. “Here,
restrain this bitch,” Tony continued. Ronny turned the cat on its back, grabbed its front
legs and started probing the base of the neck with his thumb. Tony muttered as he dug
through the tackle box. He assembled three 20ml syringes and arranged them on a paper
towel. “Now where are my three-way taps?”
“Be a simple kind of man,” Ronny sang along with the radio. Tony twisted the cat’s
head to the side and inserted a catheter into the throbbing jugular.
“Prepare to be bored out of your skull for the next half hour,” Tony announced as
the barrel of the first syringe slowly began to fill with blood.
“Speak for yourself,”Ronny replied. “I’m blimpin’ out right about now.” He
motioned toward the weather balloons with his head as he pulled a rubber band out of
the tackle box and wrapped it around the cat’s extended front legs.
“Like hell, you are.” Tony glared at Ronny. “We’re doing this right this time. No
more wasted blood and no more new cats.”
“Aw man. Pull your panties out of your butt, Mom.”
“Get a bag ready, dickhead - one that says ‘Utah Medical Products’ on it.” Tony
checked the clock on the boombox. 7:38 PM. Six bags will take three, maybe four hours.
After this one, six cats left; that should be enough if something goes wrong. He looked
down at the half-full syringe, cracked a half smile and nodded. “I’m paying off my fucking
guitar tomorrow.”
“This award was so unexpected,” Sheldon announced too loudly into the
microphone. “Whoops.” He jerked his head back a few inches then timidly re-extended it
to a safer range. “Obviously, I’m not used to giving speeches like this.”
The dining room of photographers, historians, and distinguished guests waited
politely, enjoying their desserts and tea seated at round, linen-draped tables. He could see
a few sympathetic smiles glimmering from the tables in the front.
“But thank you so very much,” he resumed. “This whole experience has just been
so wonderful. This is my first time in London and, obviously, to the Natural History
Museum. You all have been so kind and such gracious hosts. I will definitely come back to
London again, I can assure you.”
Sheldon looked down at the white 3x5 card cradled in his hands. The small bullet
points he wrote for himself were hard to read under the bright spotlight. The shine from
the copper medallion they placed around his neck, now resting on his lavender paisley
necktie, was hard to look past as well.
“So,” he began after a deep breath. “A little bit about me and my background: I’m
not a professional photographer, as you might have guessed. I actually work as a fish
counter at the Bonneville Dam on the beautiful Columbia River in Oregon. I sit in front of
an underwater window by the fish ladder and count all the salmon and steelhead that
swim by, as best I can. Several of the species are endangered so the government wants to
keep track of how the different seasonal runs are doing. I know it sounds so boring but I
love the fish and I like to fish and get outdoors whenever I can. When I’m not camping or
hiking or counting fish, I like to sing in the choir at our Unitarian church.” Sheldon paused
a beat then deeply intoned: “I am a baritone.”
A wave of well intentioned laughter filled the hall and Sheldon smiled under his
blushing cheeks. He turned and nodded to the stage manager who projected the words
“Special Commendation Award” above the stage on a large screen followed by Sheldon’s

4

photograph titled “Fireflies.” He could hear approving murmurs and a few gasps. The card
in his hands started to feel moist around the edges. After Choir, the next bullet was
Perseids.

***

“C’mon, Tony. Let’s take a fucking break already.” Ronny set the second bag of
blood on the shelf in the freezer and slammed the door closed. “I wanna eat some of that
fucking pizza.”
Tony took the cigarette out from behind his ear and tucked it into the corner of his
mouth. 8:31 PM. “Yeah,” he mumbled and fired up his lighter. Ronny clapped his hands
and jogged to his car. He returned with a grease stained pizza box, a spool of nylon rope,
and two cans of Coors Light. He set the box on the edge of the picnic table and flipped a
beer to Tony.
“Dickhead,” Tony said, setting the can on the table. He lightly cracked the top letting
a hiss and a spray of foam escape. He looked into the weathered shack, now amber from
the bare, unbroken light bulb on the wall. All four crates were occupied: two cats were
getting anaesthetized and two were recovering. He walked over to the litter pen and
grabbed the smoke can. Two cats were sitting by the pen door yowling in turn. Although

5

they weren’t supposed to eat for several hours before going under, Tony figured they
hadn’t eaten for a couple of days now. He flipped the switch to get the smoker heating. Bee
Z Smoker was emblazoned along the can's base next to a Honey Nut Cheerios-looking bee
cartoon.
In the center of the room, Ronny pulled one of the weather balloons out of the box
with the hand that wasn’t holding a pizza slice. Tony shook his head when their eyes met
but he kept watching as Ronny clenched his pizza in his teeth and used both hands to
simultaneously hold the balloon’s stem around the nozzle and open the valve on the
helium tank.
“You are a crazy son of a bitch,” Tony muttered before turning back to the litter
pen. The smoker’s built-in fan had kicked in so he opened the aperture and pumped
several gray clouds onto the cats. “Now shut the hell up already."
He heard Ronny ask into a cat carrier, “You ready for yo’ blimp ride?” Tony
glanced over to the clock again. Ronny had tied an inflated balloon to the picnic table,
letting the slack rope make a small pile on the ground. The remaining daylight gave the
balloon a greenish hue.
“I’m going to start shaving the next one,” Tony told Ronny as he walked over to the
crates. He unlocked one of the ground-level doors, reached in and pulled out a limp black
cat. The tips of its ears and tail were white. Ronny followed suit and opened the carrier

6

stacked above it. The groggy siamese had propped itself up on its widely spread front legs.
Ronny pulled it out and carried it over to the loose rope under the floating balloon.
Quickly fashioning a buntline hitch - over, around, under, then through - about the
shoulders of the Siamese, he untethered and released the cat-balloon into the air. He
pushed it out through the garage door and watched the cat rise about 15 feet. Ronny
clapped his hands together and shouted, “Booyah!”

***
“My photography skills are uneven, to put it politely,” Sheldon said. He paused to
pantomime the balancing act of a scale, raising and lowering his small hands under the
long sleeves of his periwinkle dress shirt. “I’ve gleaned some techniques from magazines
and blogs. I can do a few things in Photoshop. And I have a quote prosumer unquote
camera - a Canon Digital Rebel t3i - and a pretty good tripod. I haven’t invested much in
different lenses because I don’t really know how to use them.” The silence of the audience
made the temperature rise in Sheldon’s cheeks again. He twisted around to face the
projection of his picture.
“One of the things I’d been wanting to learn -”
The stage manager gestured urgently to get Sheldon's attention, redirecting him to
face the microphone.

7

“Oh, sorry!” Sheldon spun back around and began again, loudly. “One of the things
I’d been wanting to learn was how to do long exposures. I wanted to make those great
pictures of exploding fireworks or a city at night with colored lines made by car
headlights. Well, you probably all remember the last Perseids meteor shower. I was so
excited to get away from the buildings and street lights. Try to capture a few white tailed
meteors with my tripod a timer.” He turned to check-in with the stage manager and got a
please continue nod in return.
“So, it’s about 11 PM and I’m out in the Washougal woods - no lights out there, for
sure - and I’m taking my pictures with my timer and my remote control when I see a
building suddenly start on fire not a half mile away. Naturally, I wasn't expecting to see a
building out there, let alone a fire. So, I didn’t really know what to do. But, it dawned on
me that I could stay where I was and just use my 75-300 millimeter zoom to see what was
going on. Keep a safe distance but see if anybody needed any help or anything.
Once I got the lenses switched out and pulled the camera off the tripod - and mind
you I’m moving pretty quickly now because I’m pretty rattled at this point - I start looking
through the camera and the first thing I noticed was that there were these big balloons
floating over there." Sheldon held a surprised expression and waved his hands to make
large circles in several directions. "And I thought: what in God’s name is going on over
there?"

8

***

“Fucking let’s go,” Tony called out from the picnic table. Ronny hurried back and
grabbed the black cat’s legs, pulling it onto its back. “No,” said Tony. “You be the bleeder
this time.”
“Aw, fuck. How am I supposed to finish my beer?”
Tony rolled his eyes. “When you switch out syringes, fucking pound it.” Ronny
nodded at the idea and mouthed “fuck yeah” as he untangled a fresh catheter tube from
the tackle box.
Two vials in, a ZZTop song chugged out of the boombox. “A how, how, how, how!”
Tony and Ronny sang in unison.
“God, I cannot wait to give Shauna these last fucking bags and get my fucking
Gibson,” Tony said bobbing his head to the beat.
“I know, brother. I know," Ronny replied. "It’s cool that she lent you the money and
it’s her fucking eBay account and all. But, it’s a signed Gibson SG. Angus fucking Young,
bro.”
“Fuck! It’s driving me fucking nuts, Ronny.”
“You don’t fucking hold out on something like that from your brother until you get

9

your precious fucking money or your fucking cat blood or whatever it fucking is," Ronny
continued. "She knows you love Angus. It’s a fucking bitch move, man. I mean, she’s your
sister and everything but it’s a bitch move, man. It has to be said.”
Tony shook his head and attached a clipper to the catheter while Ronny switched
to the third syringe.
“Hey, what the fuck bag is that?” Tony asked gesturing at the table with his head.
Careful not to stop filling, Ronny picked up the bag in his teeth and craned his neck to let
Tony inspect it. “It’s not Utah. We can’t use it. “
“Aw, shit.”
“These other bags don’t have CDPA in them. The blood clots and Shauna will shit
herself. Just throw all those bags away, dickhead. We don’t need them anymore anyway.”
“Cool,” confirmed Ronny.

***

The 3x5 card was a softening wad in Sheldon’s left hand but he didn’t need it
anymore. The guests at the table closest to the stage - the woman with the chunky
necklace and the freckled, ponytail man - reluctantly returned his stares. He had zeroed in
on them right away and spoke primarily at them throughout his acceptance speech, losing

10

sight of the rest of the room.
“Then, of course,” Sheldon continued, raising both arms toward the screen. “I saw
this: Hanging from these - what I read later to be - weather balloons, were cats.
Inexplicably, there were cats floating around this burning cabin in the middle of the
woods. I think I took the first picture purely by accident. Then, I tried to capture as much
of the scene as I could before finally high-tailing it out of there. I was so startled I just
grabbed up my chair, my tripod, and ran back to my car. Naturally, I called the police and
gave them the best directions I could. They actually flew out a helicopter.
A couple of days later, I read about the fire in the newspaper. They think it was
some kind of crazy cat lady who was running a drug house out in the woods. It was just
pure luck that I happened to be in the right place at the right time with a camera.”
Sheldon paused and looked around. He could make out the green Exit sign above
the doors at the back of the room. "Thank you,” he exhaled with a deep bow. The chunky
necklace lady looked to the ponytail man who immediately initiated a polite round of
applause.

***

With the blood of the fifth cat bagged, Tony emptied the contents of the freezer

11

into a Coleman cooler half-filled with dry ice. He set the cooler into the back of the Datsun
and lit a cigarette. Ronny wasted no time tying knots around the remaining cats and
alighting them from different spots outside the shack. He watched them float as he wiped
his hands on his jeans.
“This place fucking stinks,” he announced grabbing the tackle box and carrying it to
the car.
“No shit,” Tony replied. “You can keep your tank if you want but I’m torching this
dump.”
“Shit yes I’m keeping it.” They walked together into the shack and each grabbed an
end of the metal cylinder.
“It’s nine hours to Oakland, if we don’t pooty-coot around,” Tony said. “Shauna can
have her blood, I can get my guitar, and we can finally get the fuck out of there. I don’t
want to spend the rest of my life cleaning lice off of snakes, driving all over the goddamn
place delivering exotic pets to fuckin' rich people. ‘Oh, only type AB feline blood products
from the Pacific Northwest for my Fifi’ - bullshit. I’m done.”
“Fuck yeah, bro,” Ronny replied. They eased the helium into the car and shut the
hatchback tightly. Tony grabbed two bottles of rubbing alcohol, walked into the shack and
started soaking the garbage pile. Ronny watched as the fading shapes of two balloons
gently collided overhead. Outlined before the black trees, their payloads hung slumped

12

like overripe sunflowers.

13


