Marcie’s trouble began when she got promoted. Before then, she was getting
along just fine ignoring the calls she was supposed to be answering in the basement of the
office building and planning her wedding between nine and five. But then Marcie came
home early one day to surprise Todd, her fiancé, with the hedgehog he’d been wanting;
she found him on his knees at the foot of their bed with his face pressed between their
neighbor Charlotte’s legs, her tuft of light brown pubic hair showing above Todd’s head
like a dirty halo. Marcie set the hedgehog down on the bed beside Charlotte, who
squealed, and grabbed Todd by the hair on the top of his head. She thought about
slapping him across his slimy face, but couldn’t bring herself to do it. Instead, she let go,
gathered the hedgehog, and then quietly told Todd to leave the house while she packed
her things.
The next day, Marcie brought the hedgehog, whom she’d named Erin, to work
with her and really put her nose to the grindstone. It was the first time in her almost six
years with You-Biquitous that she actually did her job with any gusto whatsoever and she
was surprised to find herself enjoying it.
She’d gotten the job at You-Biquitous a week before she graduated from her
Masters program. Marcie was a good student – willing to work hard but also naturally
adept at predicting the material each professor would find salient and include on the
exam. She was never the smartest student in the classroom, but she was frequently the
one with the highest final grade. She was an English major, though, so of course her
options were limited. She’d met Todd in her first year of graduate school. He was getting
his Masters degree in Computer Engineering and he joined in with the chorus Marcie had
heard her whole life when she told people she wanted to study literature because she
liked reading and writing:
“Well what are you going to do with that?”
“Same thing you’re going to do with your degree: find a job and work.”
“Good luck,” Todd said. Marcie started applying and interviewing for jobs the
semester before she graduated.
When You-Biquitous invited her back for the fourth of five interviews, she stood
in front of the full-length mirror in their bedroom as Todd got ready for his first day at
work for SeemLess, a tech company whose mission it was to eliminate human beings
from any and all retail interactions.
“Looks like I’m not going to be unemployed,” Marcie said, turning to the side to
ensure that her skirt hugged her hips outlining the slope of her ass tightly, but not so
tightly that one could make out her cellulitic dimples.
“Don’t count your chickens before they’re hatched,” Todd said, ever the
pessimist, “but yes, step four of five is further than I’d’ve predicted. It is a sales job,
though, so they’re probably willing to take anyone on to push product.”
“Gee, thanks.”
“Oh, Marce, I’m sorry,” Todd backpedaled, his engineer’s bluntness and
calculating analysis of all situations once again leading the charge before his tenderness
and true care for her. “You really are tearing it up out there. And you’re still two weeks
out from graduating!”
“Who would’ve guessed it. There are things to be done with a literature degree.”
Marcie pulled the hair elastic off her wrist and tied her thick brown hair into a high and
tight bun on the top of her head. “I hope you have a fun day making robots to replace
Geoff!”
Geoff was her favorite barista at Crack o’ Dawn, the coffee joint across the street
from her classroom building on campus.
“Geoff can have a new job manufacturing bots that will prevent him from ever
having to take some bitch’s order for a medium extra hot skim latte with four pumps of
sugar free hazelnut no foam in a large cup.”
“True, but a robot won’t be able to spit in it.”
In the fourth interview, a panel of four managers questioned Marcie on what she’d
do in certain situations.
“We are trying to sell people our management system. If a company is willing to
pay us $8,375 per month minimum, we will man-handle their advertising, from email to
direct to paid search to in person to organic online to word-of-mouth all of it top to
bottom. But they have to believe that they are currently failing and that we will make
them succeed. In dollars and cents we will improve their bottom line by X amount,
inclusive of our management fee. You are trying to convince a person, whether or not it is
true, that they are bleeding money, that they don’t just want us, they need us. Now go.”
“Okay, well I guess I would probably bring up competitors. Maybe find out what
they’re doing and try to make the prospect feel like they’re missing out on something
obvious that other people are doing.” Marcie looked around the room for affirmation, but
her interviewers were just furiously typing notes on their tablets. She wondered whether
the notes were about her, or unrelated altogether. Maybe she’d already failed somehow.
Maybe that answer was dumb. “I’d also definitely talk about my own experiences and
how integrated advertising (a buzzword she’d picked up online while researching the
position) affects my own perceptions about a company and decision to purchase and
become a loyal customer.” She was deep in bullshit territory, and going full throttle. The
panel had stopped typing. A couple of the interviewers were actually making eye contact
with her. She wasn’t sure if that was a good thing or not, but it was too late to back out
now. Besides, this was territory she knew well. Writing papers in school had always been
an exercise in convincing herself of something she made up and then convincing
someone else of that same thing. That was all she was doing now. “If I’m going to buy a
different soap brand, it’s going to be because a series of marketing moves convinced me
so completely that that’s the soap to use that I didn’t even think about switching soap
brands.”
“Yeah, exactly,” one of the interviewers said from behind his tablet. Marcie was
afraid it was a sarcastic exactly, but they invited her back for a “final discussion” the
following week. They offered her a full time job starting the Monday after she graduated.
They showed her around the office, the modern, deconstructed upper floors, the snack
room with a view of the city and free fresh juices made from things like kale, carrots and
dates. They didn’t show her the cubicle that would be hers: down in the basement with no
windows underneath flickering lights. A typical swivel office chair, a single desktop
computer, a cup for pens and pencils she’d never use. The day she started, her supervisor
took her to her desk and, perhaps sensing a bit of disappointment, assured her that she’d
move up to the land of tablets, laptops, bean bag chairs and windows as soon as she’d put
in her time in sales.
“Everybody’s got to shovel shit sometimes, Marce,” Todd told her when she’d
described her dank workspace that first night.
She realized after losing Todd and coming to work with a fresh perspective that
she’d actually not been shoveling shit at all, but had instead been kicking it around
uselessly.
She opened six new accounts with desired clients that week, which caught her
supervisor’s attention. He gave her a few pointers via email, as well as a few new leads
she begged him for, and by the end of that month, she’d broken the single-day sales
record and Gerard came down to the basement to offer Marcie a promotion. He was
tickled by the hedgehog.
“That’s great,” he said. “Very quirky.”
“Sorry,” Marcie said, “I’m just in between places right now and I can’t leave her
in the car.”
“Grab the creature and your stuff,” he said. “And come with me.” He led her to
the elevator and they rode it up to the fifth floor. The doors opened into a sea of desks on
wheels, portable screens, whiteboards, laptops, tablets, chairs on wheels. There were
clusters of people working all over the room, laughing and eating hard candies. There
were tall windows that looked out onto treetops and blue sky and a sizeable parking lot.
“Welcome to the big leagues,” Gerard said.

Everywhere All the Time 6
“Thanks,” Marcie said, setting her things on a thin white table with wheels. She
wondered what she’d be doing up in strategy. Calls and emails were less frequent she
knew. Invented terminology was rampant.
Gerard set his hand on Erin’s carrying case and leaned against the flimsy table,
letting it roll toward a metal wall and come to a halt. “Here’s the deal,” he said, checking
his wrist, which was empty and then his iGlassEye. He looked like a man with an
aggressive tic or a stray nose hair he couldn’t quite get rid of. “You’re joining Strategy
Team Go All the Way. Obviously the mission there’s to just guerilla market until the
cows come home. Like, we’re talking, take the sloughed-off budget from a big paid
search campaign and then put every penny to use until we’re red in the face. We’re
talking cutting freaking edge. You haven’t lived ‘til you’ve run a campaign with Strategy
Team GATW.”
Gerard looked at Marcie. “Questions?” he asked.
“Sure, sounds exciting. Will I start today? What will I be doing?”
“You and your quirk are starting right now. Write yourself an online dating
profile, get together some legit pictures, no catfish, and send them to me by the end of
today. Make yourself irresistible. And CC Sloane. He’s my head of Team Go All the
Way.”
“Just, like, a normal dating profile? For dates?”
“Obviously. How else would you meet new targets face-to-face and guerilla
them?”
“Oh, I guess I just thought we used social media to influence our networks.”

Everywhere All the Time 7
“Social media is shit. People know it’s not real, and they smells ads a mile away.
No—this team is about doing what no one else thinks to: interact IRL with targets to push
clients’ brands.”
#
Writing her profile did not feel like work; it felt cathartic, like jumping into a
frigid pond on a warm day, or hammering loose nails into a deck. Marcie had always
turned her nose up at online dating, because it seemed forced and put-on. But now she
wished she’d tried it before. She felt self-possessed in a way she never did in real life. In
real life, Marcie was the kind of girl who took whatever people offered her: when a man
in a bar bought her a beer, she drank it, though she preferred wine; when her fellow sales
callers in the basement of gave her a chocolate cake for her birthday last year, she ate it,
though chocolate icing gave her a headache. But online, she had whole lists of likes and
dislikes, whole columns of things she was looking for, things she could not tolerate,
things she could not live without.
Under “favorite foods,” Marcie wrote, “Armchair Chicken sandwiches with extra
pickles, frozen bananas, thick cut potato chips, Moo-Moo Miss Lou’s cherry white
chocolate ice cream, and green apples. I also really like watermelon, but only outside on a
hot day near water.” This, incidentally, was true.
Under “favorite restaurants,” Marcie wrote, “Armchair Chicken, obviously, and
Sea-Do Sushi and Westbound Burgers. I could go on…”
For her photo, Marcie chose one from the day Todd proposed. Marcie had felt it
coming, and so she’d worn a nice dress and eyeliner. The dress was purple and she’d
cried when Todd got down on one knee, so her brown eyes had a nice glimmer to them in

Everywhere All the Time 8
the photos. She cut Todd out. She also cut out her stocky legs and soft, dimpled arms.
Might as well put my best foot forward, she thought.
When prompted to describe what it was she was looking for, Marcie explained
that she’d just gotten out of a six-year long relationship that ended with two excruciating
years of engagement. She wanted a long-term relationship, but forever wasn’t really on
her mind at the moment. She wanted someone kind and funny, preferably one who would
not lie or cheat. Someone who wanted to get out and experience their city, try new foods
and do adventurous things.
Within hours of activating her profile on Sayokay.com, Marcie had a dozen
messages. She sifted through them keeping her principles in mind. She wanted a good
return on her time investment and so would only respond to profitable potentials.
Mac had not gone to college. Zeek had “Rastafarian” listed as his religion. Carlos
claimed to be “an entrepreneur working on a start-up,” which Marcie knew was code for
“unemployed.” John wrote that he was a janitor for a local elementary school so he could
support his real calling, which was playing video games. Doug wrote in his message that
he wanted Marcie to “sit on his face,” so he was out. Jeremy was working on a “pretty
promising novel,” so he was out, too.
Marcie settled on three to respond positively to: Paul, Leo, and Mitch.
To Paul she wrote, “Thank you! I liked your profile too. I work for a jewelry
company. I’m one of the engagement and wedding ring consultants so my job consists of
watching happy couples parade their love in front of me all day LOL ;-) But yes, I would
love to go out sometime. Maybe one night this week after work? Have you ever been to
Sea-Do Sushi off of Highland Dr.? It’s pretty good. I also like this bar called Clear-

Everywhere All the Time 9
Headed but it’s right by the college so sometimes it can be kinda crazy. You decide
whether you want to just do drinks or spring for dinner and then let me know! I’m free
any day but Thursday. –Kaitlyn.”
To Leo, who described himself as reserved, she wrote, “I appreciate that! It was
taken last year at a Fourth of July party. I’d love to meet up—what are your thoughts on
some cheap takeout and a movie at my place? Do you happen to like Armchair? My
name’s Kristin, by the way.”
To Mitch, an accountant, who had written the least in his initial message and who
Marcie was having the most difficult time getting a read on, she wrote, “I work for a data
analytics consulting firm, so I actually do know a little about number crunching! I mostly
help companies find where they can trim the fat and ignore the fact that I’m part of the fat
;-) LOL not really. But yeah I would be willing to give me your number—so long as you
give me yours and are willing to have your inbox spammed with updates on how loud my
coworker’s cough is and VidAddict videos of people waking up from anesthesia.”
Marcie began going on dates the following week. She closed with Paul and Leo
within the month, before she’d even gone on a first date with Mitch. She’d gotten four
new people into her rotation and was going out every night of the week except Sunday,
which was her day off, and was Erin’s bath day. Erin loved baths.
#
Gerard called Marcie in for a performance review meeting at the end of the fiscal
year.
“You still bringing that creature in? Taking it to all your off site assignments?”
Gerard leaned back in his swivel chair and folded his hands over his round, hard stomach.

Everywhere All the Time 10
He looked just like bosses always did in movies. He had to be doing that on
purpose. “No, sir. I’ve got a place now, an apartment by the river, so I just leave her
there,” Marie explained.
“Big mistake, sister, Gerard said. “Big fucking mistake.”
“Um.”
“That creature added like a thousand points to your quirk score. We promoted you
to help handle some of our alternative accounts. You know that! You’re in here wearing
black slacks and stilettos. What is this blue button down shirt you got? I mean, what the
hell are you doing. Where’s those old beat-up khakis that looked like they were for
men?”
“They are with Todd, my ex-fiancé; they belong to him. I was wearing them
during a rough period in my life.”
“Well, get ‘em back. Or better yet, get some colored pants. Like orange pants.
Very alternative, no?”
“Are you allowed to base my performance review on my attire and whether or not
I bring my pet to work?”
“You’re in person-to-person ubiquitous advertising. You’re overseeing some of
our less mainstream accounts. You’ve got Armchair, Clear-Headed, Sea-Do, Moo-Moo
Miss Lou Dairy and what’s this YumFruits! Skin Care? What even is that? I mean, hell,
Marcie I can base your performance review on whatever I want.”
“Fair enough,” Marcie said. Lately she’d been jealous of some of her fifth floor
counterparts. The Internet, email, social media advertisers. They could clock in, do their
work, write ads and content pushing their clients, driving immediately measurable results

Everywhere All the Time 11
without having any one-on-one interaction with consumers. VidAddict pop-up ads,
search engine stuff, MeBook anonymous ubiquitous advertising. She was getting sick of
all the dates, all the sneaky mentions, the restaurant and food suggestions, the line, “I just
love the way a man’s skin smells and tastes after this blueberry oatmeal body scrub.” Leo
had even bought some of that scrub, and used it, and it had smelled terrible. He claimed
he could already see his crow’s feet disappearing. She’d been encouraged to send a
boilerplate response to every man who messaged her explaining that she’d actually met
someone at this great gym (link included) and so she was sorry but would not be
interesting in pursuing anything. It seemed so obvious to Marcie, who never even clicked
on links her friends sent her, but apparently memberships to RadBod gym had
skyrocketed.
“So?” Gerard said.
“So what?”
“How’s the in person online dating stuff going?”
“Oh, you know. It’s strange. I feel like people are going to start blowing the
whistle on us for this.”
“No, that won’t happen. It’s also totally not illegal. We’ve got enough different
people on different sites and we’re starting to spread out over more and more person-toperson stuff. Just complete saturated brand exposure. I mean, it’s great. We really are
making our clients’ brands ubiquitous. Frankly, it’s more effective than the shit they do
on fifth floor. Our shit cuts deeper. Lasts way longer than one online buy, right?”
“Everywhere all the time,” Marcie said.
“Everywhere all the time,” Gerard answered.

Everywhere All the Time 12
#
Soon Mitch became Marcie’s pet project. As Marcie’s success with all other
potentials rose, her failure to close with Mitch bothered her more and more. Gerard
encouraged her to just send the “ending things” message to men she’d pegged as
potentials but hadn’t met in person and just keep going. And Marcie did, for most of
them, but not Mitch.
Marcie and Mitch exchanged upwards of two-dozen d*chats a day. Marcie was
using her personal D*awdle account for those messages, which she knew was not
protocol. She also knew that if Gerard found out that she was spending precious one-onone time with potentials doing anything other than pushing brands, he’d be furious. He’d
also point out that twenty-six d*chats a day with no close was an awfully bad return on
our time investment, was it not? Marcie figured Mitch was only postponing asking her
out because he was worried about getting hurt, or disappointing her. He was so charming
over d*chat, and so attentive. He was savvy, too, and had suggestions for making her
moveable workplace more ergonomic: make everything stay still, lock a chair in front of
a desk that doesn’t roll away, get uphill of the rolling whiteboards, sit up straight, and
work. He made Marcie laugh and he’d even sent her a facEmotion of a smiling dog with
a heart floating above its head. She had him locked in.
#
Marcie was out at Sea-Do trying to get this guy named Guy addicted to their
special roll. It wasn’t that hard, really. They used panko as the crunch around the tuna,
plus a killer combination of hot sauce, mayonnaise, lemon juice, and vanilla as the

Everywhere All the Time 13
signature dipping sauce. With Sea-Do, Marcie considered it a close once she’d taken a
consumer there twice.
“I love that they use crushed peanuts in this,” Guy said.
“So good,” Marcie said.”
“Do you want a bite?”
“Oh, no thank you. I’ve had it a thousand times.” That was an exaggeration. It
was probably getting close to a few hundred though.
“So would you be interested in coming back to my place tonight? I’ve got a bottle
of wine and some cheesecake.”
“God damn it,” Marcie said.
“Oh, I’m sorry, I just thought things were going-”
“No, no. It’s not you. Sorry. My ex just walked in with someone.”
“Maybe I should go, or… Is it the blonde?”
“Shut up.” Marcie was never supposed to be either rude or threatening with
consumers, but in this instance she could not help it. She saw Todd notice her. She saw
him register that she was out with a Guy. She saw a look of perfect indifference on his
face, the click back into attention when Charlotte addressed him. “Let’s go.”
Marcie took Guy’s hand when they stood and she made sure they walked directly
in front of Todd and Charlotte. That’ll show them, she thought, though what she was not
so sure.
In the Sea-Do parking lot, Guy told her he thought it would be best if he went
home alone. He said it just didn’t seem like Marcie was really ready to move on. Marcie

Everywhere All the Time 14
resented that because she was so close to closing with Guy, but she really wasn’t in the
mood to work right now anyway.
#
When she got home, Marcie took all her clothes off and got her computer and got
in bed went straight to Dawdle.com, before even checking her Sayokay account. She was
hoping for the neon blink of a waiting d*chat. She closed her eyes while the page loaded
and then opened them slowly. Sure enough, the neon blink greeted her. She clicked the
icon and up popped a message from Mitch.
Would you want to meet up sometime this week?
Marcie sat up, her face warming.
#
Thursday came quickly and Marcie overslept her alarm, so her plan to shave her
legs and armpits, blow dry her hair, and apply makeup was thwarted. She settled for the
slightly mussed look that she knew she only really pulled off when she’d put in hours of
prep work. Todd used to comment on her greasy hair, saying it was good he liked the
grunge look. At the time, it hadn’t bothered her. Todd had a somewhat sunken chest, a
rapidly receding hairline, and a soft, comfortable stomach; she felt confident she was the
better-looking one of the pair. Now, though, she found herself constantly looking at
herself in mirrors, in the chrome walls of You-Biquitous, in the camera of her phone. On
dates, she felt pressure to be desirable and likeable. Her confidence, which had wavered
after the cheating incident, was falling as the marketing dates consumed her life. Mitch
was the bright spot in her days now, and she was nervous to meet him in person. She’d
stopped thinking of him as a job and had entered into what Gerard called the “No-No

Everywhere All the Time 15
Danger Zone,” wherein his employees stopped being effective guerilla marketers because
they failed to remain sufficiently emotionally detached from targets.
#
Mitch had a deep dimple on his left cheek. His eyes were a bright brown and their
whites were so white Marcie leaned in to check if they had veins. He laughed and nodded
at the waiter who came swiftly over to take their order. He then nodded at Marcie, with a
panache she’d not expected from a man she considered an introverted accountant.
“I’ll have the Sea-Do special roll,” Marcie said, “light on the panko, and another
Chardonnay.”
“Have you had that before?” Mitch said as the waiter shifted over to take his
order.
“Yes, hundreds of times; it’s so good. I recommend.”
Mitch narrowed his eyes and said, “Same.”
#
They spent several hours at their table, split two bottles of wine, and had two
rounds of dessert. Every time Marcie made Mitch laugh, she felt a rush of pride and
power akin to how she felt when she used to earn high marks in school. When their server
brought the check, Mitch and Marie both lunged for it, each of them grabbing an end.
With her free hand, Marcie dug around in her bag for her company card. To pay for this
meal on her company card would violate several best practices, but Marcie knew she
could find a way to explain the cost to Gerard whenever he asked. She couldn’t afford to
take this one on her own, but she didn’t want Mitch to have to pay either. He seemed just
as determined to treat her, and refused to even entertain the idea of splitting the check. He

Everywhere All the Time 16
claimed to have eaten more sushi, but Marcie had her doubts, and she was certain she’d
drunk more wine. He threatened to make a scene if she tried to pay and so she
surrendered. She’d not treated him like a normal target for months, so she saw no reason
to start now.
Mitch paid the bill mechanically, finished his water, and invited Marcie home.
She happily agreed, wondering if this was perhaps the first of many dates, the beginning
of something good.
#
His apartment was sparse and streamlined. He had only sparkling water and beer
in his fridge, and they each had a couple of waters. They talked and watched reruns and
eventually Marcie fell asleep on the couch, her legs resting on Mitch’s lap, his hand
stroking her knee absently.
She woke in the middle of the night with a headache and a dry mouth. The faucet
in the kitchen sink didn’t work, so she quietly gulped a sparkling water. It went down
stinging and had an acidic aftertaste. She was cold and Mitch’s bedroom door was
cracked. Her plan was to grab a blanket and go back to the couch, but she couldn’t find
one, so she got into bed beside Mitch. Even his bed just had a thin sheet. Still cold, she
rolled over to try to harvest warmth from Mitch’s sleeping body, but even he wasn’t
warm.
Her eyes adjusted to the room’s darkness slowly, and little by little she realized
the truth: his bright eyes were open, his head was perfectly centered on his thin, rubbery
pillow, eking out the steady current that flowed from the wall to the charging pad to his

Everywhere All the Time 17
brain, the whir of his breath was inhumanly steady and she wondered how she’d missed
that before.
Sickened, Marcie crawled from the bed. Her purse and coat were still on the
couch. She gathered them and ran, as if he were chasing her, from his apartment and out
into the predawn air. She was several miles from home, and even farther from the
restaurant where her car was parked. She thought of calling an iDrive, but her phone was
dying and she didn’t want whatever company Mitch was made for to see her
whereabouts, which she had set to automatically post on her D*awdle account, for safety
reasons. She walked in the direction of home, feeling lost and alone, but knowing that the
days in which a person could actually be lost and alone had been over for some time now,
and that the truth was she would never be alone again.


