I didn’t like her from day one, and it may have been even before that. My mother,
Phoebe, told me there was a lot of movement during her pregnancy, and the last three months
were the worst. I was constantly changing positions, searching for my own space. At thirty-six
weeks, when I had grown to about seven pounds already, I decided I had enough. There just
wasn’t enough room for the both of us.
When I was four Kate would chase me incessantly. I complained to my mother, the best
way a four year old could, by whining and throwing tantrums. Kate meant well but she never left
me alone, and, worst of all, she never shut up. Her endless jawing in my ear started before we
could even speak actual words, and, with our vocabulary growing, it certainly wasn’t going to
get any better. Even worse than the chatter itself, as we grew older Kate’s speech became
bizarre, to the point that she would say things that either made no sense or made me question her
intentions.
“I wish I could be a wizard, and make it all disappear.”
I usually just ignored her until she became quiet, and then grumbled to my mother later.
“Mary,” Phoebe chastised, “Stop whining.”
I wasn’t fond of Phoebe’s short answers. They provided no tangible solution to what I
considered a living, breathing, ongoing problem, and instead just allowed her to turn the other
cheek. I tried to cut her some slack as I got older. She was a single mother, one who had previous
dreams of becoming a physician but instead settled as a nursing assistant due to an unfortunate
and untimely pregnancy. My father was a loser, in and out of jail for ridiculousness like petty
theft. I met him when I was eight and that was enough for me. I decided that being in a loving
relationship with only one parent was far better than forcing a relationship with two just because
the other happens to be my father. I often wondered how someone as smart and sophisticated as
my mother could be conned by such a worthless individual with no money, no prospects, and
half a dozen other girlfriends.
“You would be surprised how people have the ability to talk you into believing things
they think are actually true,” she answered.
I always wondered what she meant by that.
As Kate continued to grow into a giant pain in the ass, I blamed the other half of the
gene pool. At first I thought Phoebe was just taking her previous bad decisions out on me, but it
seemed to become much more than that. First of all, whenever something went wrong, I was to
blame. If dirt was tracked through the house, I did it. When Phoebe’s old Lenox vase was
broken, I was responsible. Once Kate snuck in a friend while Phoebe was out and they started a
fire in the kitchen. When my mother got home she smacked me for “allowing such behavior.”
Each time Kate went into hiding while I suffered the wrath. Kate would always apologize later,
for not sticking up for me, for not taking accountability. She would try to smooth things over,
and when we were younger her whispering charm always made me forgive her. As we got older,
things changed and Kate continued to earn my abhorrence. When we began school she always
wanted to be included with my friends, wanted to take the same classes, and even berated me
into taking the violin with her in orchestra instead of the flute, which I preferred. Kate tried hard
to get me to like her, but I deemed her a giant annoyance. How could I maintain a good
relationship with someone who always brought misfortune to me?
What made me dislike her more as we got older was how weird she was. When we were
ten she wouldn’t stop wetting the bed. I tried to hide this from Phoebe – in a small part because
in some way I did feel sorry for Kate, but largely in part because I didn’t want to have to offer
some explanation to Phoebe that would likely be turned around into my liability. Then, when we
were in seventh grade, Kate developed a severely inappropriate fascination with our algebra
teacher. On a Tuesday I got called into the office. Mr. Neally was standing with Principal
Sherwood while I sat in silence, staring at the wall covered with blue ribbons and “Best in Class”
awards. My mother came to pick me up early from school. I wasn’t sick, but I didn’t go back to
school for a week.
At that point I realized how manipulative she could be. I tried in vain to disregard her
nonsense. Sometimes she relented and let me be, but more often than not she would persist until
I conceded to her plan. When we were thirteen, for instance, she talked me into scaling Billy
Thompson’s backyard wall so we could steal beer out of the mini-fridge in his dad’s shed. But by
the time I was in high school I figured that I had finally grown into a position where I could
handle her myself, for which I was unfortunately mistaken.
When I was fifteen I started dating Jason, a high school senior. Our relationship was
fortuitous – I, the introverted band geek, and he the tall, handsome jock. He liked me because I
was growing huge breasts; I liked him because he had a car. In fact, this was the foundation of
our love – his driving capability. Now I could get away, live my own life, without Kate’s
persistent presence. We spent weekends at the movies, or we would drive to the lake. Mostly I
loved that Jason was the polar opposite of my live-in companion. Jason brought me home after
each outing ten minutes early, addressing Phoebe as “Ms. McDaniel” when she answered the
door. He would never think to ask me to skip class or finish his homework. Even when we were
fooling around he felt guilty and remorseful pushing past second base. And Jason would never,
ever, ask me for money, beer, or drugs.
On March 22 Jason asked me to prom. On the eve of prom he dumped me. Someone had
sent him 100 text messages three days prior from my phone. Some of them were disgusting.
None of them were pleasant.
Phoebe grounded me for blaming Kate.
“It just wasn’t meant to be,” she added.
He would be the first of many boyfriends I lost to her. By that time my mother’s excuse
became “just wait until college - you’re almost there and then things will be much better.” I had
my hopes on several state schools that had decent pre-medicine programs. I really wanted to
become a psychologist, considering how much practice I felt I had already experienced. In high
school I commanded several advanced placement and SAT prep classes which qualified me for
even more difficult programs. I had my choice of more than ten schools, but in the end I chose
State College. Kate, ironically enough, had no interest in medicine or psychology. She preferred
art, music, and the abstract. However, she was equally as smart and just as qualifying for any
college. As such, to no shock of mine, she chose State College.
“Maybe we can be roommates,” she suggested one evening during a study session for
finals. I stared at her blankly, not wanting to address her. She continued in a soft tone.
“I think it would be great…we make a good team…”
I left abruptly during her proposal. When I became a psychologist, I decided, Kate would
be my first case. Why was she so delusional? This is what I needed – someone to scare away all
my boyfriends, to drain me away from my studies, and to get me involved with nonsense,
possibly arrested. I bet Phoebe would love hearing my voice on the other end of the jail cell payphone line. How can one person hate themselves so much to make their only friend a person who
abhorred her? How can someone have such a self-loathing personality?
I leaned on the countertop to think. Maybe it wasn’t Kate. Maybe the problem was me.
Perhaps I was the awful person. I allowed myself to be controlled by this person, permitting her
to weigh me down and become her lifelong punching bag. I was tolerable of her behavior, and
too weak to stop it. I didn’t have the strength to fight her, but I no longer could let her run my
life. But I realized that if this continued, I would not make it through college. I had to end it.
I looked down at my bleeding wrists as my mother walked in the room.
“My God, Mary, what have you done?”
The paring knife lay next to me, and I started feeling faint.
“Hurry,” I said to Phoebe apologetically, “before Kate sees me like this.”

When I opened my eyes my wrists were bandaged and bound tightly to metal bars. The
light was too bright for me to focus initially, and I could only concentrate on my back pain from
the hard mattress underneath me. I heard whispering near the right side of what I determined to
be a hospital bed. Statements like, “it will be a shock,” “you should call her father,” and “no
State College for a while.” I started floundering against the rails to attract attention. Better get it
over with, I thought.
Phoebe walked over and petted my head, her porcelain face now in focus.
“My sweetie,” she cooed, her eyes gazing at me pathetically.
“What’s going on?” I asked.
She signed and answered, “You really did a number on yourself this time.
“I never figured you would go as far as to hurt yourself. The fits, and the anger – I always
hoped you would grow out of it. I’m sorry that I was so wrong. Now look at you,” she trailed off,
sobbing. I watched her gently catch tears from her high cheekbones for a few minutes.

6

“You will need to stay here a while,” she said at last.
I lay quite for a moment. Maybe this was better. I could be alone for a while. I wanted to
make sure she wasn’t going to be able to bother me.
“Where’s Kate?” I asked.
My mother shuddered.
“Oh, baby, shh,” she said, resuming her head petting. I grew frantic.
“Phoebe answer me! Where is my sister? What is going on? Is something wrong?!”
My flailing set off the bed alarm and the nurses ran into the room in droves. One came
near me with a syringe, trying to steady my left arm while I continued to berate my mother.
“Where is she?” I screamed. “Where is Kate?”
It took only moments for the drugs to filter through my veins. I became lethargic, and my
questions became slurred.
“Where…is…my….sister?”
Finally, Phoebe answered me.
“Mary,” she said sternly, “there is no Kate. I have only one daughter. I have only ever
had one daughter.”
I closed my eyes, falling victim to a syringe that would keep me filled for months to
come. There would be no State College for a while.


