Early morning, the sun begins its climb upward from the sea casting red rays over
the still deep blue-black waters. Gray terns hover noiselessly above the water.
Occasionally one drops to the water then gracefully rises with his catch drooping from its
bill.
“This is what I love about Port Hastings. The serenity of the sea and the beach in
the fall before the town wakes up clamoring for coffee and attention,” Martin comments.
“Me, too. Not many mornings peaceful as today. Perfect day for clam
scratching,” Tom answers as the two men amble along the water’s edge, picking their
way through the detritus and seaweed left behind by the receding tide.
“Hey, not so fast, these new waders are slowing me down. They must be too big
or something.”
“They are just “stiff new” will take some adjusting as you learn to walk in them.”
“Oh, what is that mucky mound ahead of us? That is more than a clump of
seaweed.”
Moving closer, Tom stabs his clam rake at the perimeter of the seaweed.
“OMG, a body,” Martin exclaims, stumbling as he backs away into the sea.
Ever the philosopher thinker, Martin recovers, regains his footing and strokes his
day-old bearded chin thoughtfully. “Don’t touch it. Tom get away. Don’t poke it. You
are a reporter, not a coroner or a policeman. How do you think this got here?”
“We probably should report this? Who to, ace reporter?”
“Not sure. Police Chief Donaldson, first?”
“Is Donaldson even on the Cape these days? Seems he takes off as soon as Labor
Day ends, midnight and he is out of here to the New Hampshire mountains. His annual
climb of Mount Washington.”
“And now, a dead body on the beach. Someone has to deal with it. We don’t do
dead bodies. Has rigor mortis taken hold? Even when your customers are dead drunk,
you just call the taxi service to come and get them. We can’t call the Portuguese taxi to
remove this body. Seems like a job for Donaldson or an EMT or a Medical Examiner.”
Tom circles the body, lightly poking his rake around the seaweed.
“Don’t touch it. We know it’s dead. The tide’s going out, so the incoming tide
must have left it early this morning.”
“Is it male or female? Can’t tell from that matted hair. Those fancy jeans could be
either sex. Yuk.”
“Do you really believe the body was washed in with the tide? A body washed in
with the tide would be bloated, at least. And if it had been in the ocean for any length of
time, surely fish or crabs or something would have begun pecking it for food.”
I think someone brought it here and dropped it near the tide line so that whoever
found it would think it washed in from the sea.
“All its fingers and toes are there from what I can see.”
“The hair is matted but there is no seaweed in it. There is seaweed all along this
beach from the tide. Shouldn’t the body have some seaweed attached to it?”
“This body seems to be intact. Stop poking at it with your rake.”
“I just wanted to dig clams this morning and now we have a corpse to deal with.”
“Call 9 1 1. Let’s see who answers.


“This is Martin Grove. Oh, hello Brenda. Still working the graveyard shift? Tom
and I are here at the Cove Beach in Port Hastings. There is a dead body in the sand.
“I don’t know. We came down about an hour ago. It was still pretty dark.
Wanted to scratch for clams.”
“Well, could be either, hard to tell. Hair is medium length, sort of brown, but that
could just be color from the sand. Maybe average height. Age? How would we know or
even guess. Just send whoever needs to be called so they can take the body away.
“Yes, we will wait. But tell them to hurry, we don’t have all day you know!”
“Says the Sheriff’s Office gets notified first and they send a deputy to assess the
situation.”
“What situation? It is a dead body and some official needs to recover it. Can you
believe this?”
“We won’t be scratching clams today. What else did you plan to do?”
“Just a couple meetings this afternoon. Then off for a dinner date with Dianne.
We were planning steamers, but the menu will now change. It’s my night to cook.
“Do you hear a siren? Something is coming and it sure is making a racket.”
“ Oh, damn. Of course it is. It is the Deputy Sheriff in his rickety jeep. That
know-it-all braggadocio Deputy Vernon Taylor. A Sherman tank makes less noise. He
could never do undercover work, that’s for sure. Why Taylor? He must be the only one
on duty this morning.”
“He seems to always be the only one on duty.”
“This is going to take awhile with Barney Fife.”
The jeep engine grinds to a stop, its wheels throwing sand into the air.

“Morning Tom, Morning Martin, what’s goin’ on? 9 – 1 – 1 says there’s a body
on the beach.”
“Yep, there is,” Tom responds. “ This way.”
“Do you know who it is?”
“Nope, we just planned to scratch for clams this morning, not find dead bodies,
but there it is,” Tom continues, slogging along in his new waders.
The skies brighten as the sun moves higher. Cumulus clouds dot the early
morning sky. Ocean breezes gently cool the air. The two men relate their story to Taylor
as he trudges around the body, bending this way and that, but careful not to disturb the
scene.
“Guess it’s my duty to call the Country Coroner. He is the one responsible for
dead bodies of unknown origin.”
“Can we go now, I need to be at the office?” Tom inquires.
“Yep, we know where to find you!”


Time to dig the potatoes, Martin mumbles to himself as he works his shovel
around the green leafy mounds of his vegetable garden. Next clean up the squash and
cucumber vines. Maybe even add fresh mulch to the perennial bed.
The sun has broken through the early morning foggy mist, the air chilly, just the
right temperature for outdoor yard work in late fall. Martin revels in the joy of solitude.
Loving his interactions with patrons at the bar, nevertheless he relishes down time to
recoup his energies.


“Hey neighbor, wha’ cha’ doing? I don’t see any pumpkins this year. What
happened? Deer get ‘em?”
Here she comes, Mary Know-it-all-Gardener. How can I be so lucky she lives
next door? Retired from nursing in the emergency room, her focus now is gardening –
hers as well as her neighbors.
“Just pulling out my Yukon Gold crop, Mary. When the Fall Harvest Festival and
Parade comes around, I will be busy at the Whale Watch and may not get back to proper
garden clean up.”
“Your tomatoes looked really good this year. Planning to make any salsa or
sauce? Were those Brandywines? Where did you get them?”
“From Mrs. Cavanaugh over by Cedar Street. She always has good tomato plants
in the spring. How’d your garden do this season? Any canning?”
“Way too many tomatoes, I took my extras to the Food Bank. It’s just me and I
can’t eat tomatoes all winter. You know, the Food Bank can always use fresh produce.
Took some squash down also.”
Mary is making her morning rounds, checking to see what the neighbors are
doing, needs to know what is in everyone’s garden.
“Did you see the raspberries that ole Ed across the way had this year? He gave me
some. They make great freezer jam. Do you ever grow raspberries? Make freezer jam? It
is awesome. And what do you know about the body they found on the beach at Cove
Harbor last week?”

By the Sea

Page 5 of 19

Hah ah, Mary has wandered into my garden to catch up on the gossip, “Not too
much. The Medical Examiner is still doing his work, so not even sure of the cause of
death.”
“Well, Tom must know something. Hasn’t he shared with you?”
“No, Mary, Tom seems to be as much in the dark as the rest of us. Not even sure
they have identified the body. Have you heard of anyone missing?”
The sound of a car crunching over Martin’s gravel driveway startles both Martin
and Mary. Tom turns off his engine and sprints to the backyard.
“Good morning, Tom, it’s early for you to be up and about. What’s the rush?”
“Just had a strange phone call. Seems the audit by the Commonwealth of the
County Housing Coalition is reporting losses of more than $100,000. Story will be in the
next edition of the Cape Cod Times.
Pausing to take a breath, Tom continues, “My source tells me it looks like an
‘inside job,’ that someone who works within the Coalition has pilfered or embezzled the
money. No arrests yet or even any mention of who it might be.
“Mary, you have not heard any of this. You do understand.” Martin cautions,
leaning back on his shovel, as Tom, usually discreet, has blurted out this news ignoring
Mary’s presence in the garden.
Mary nods knowingly and waits to learn what other news Tom has to share.

3
The eerie silence in the County Courthouse surprises Tom as he roams the
corridors looking for some one to chat with, anyone who may have some insight into the

By the Sea

Page 6 of 19

audit report of the County Coalition. Most afternoons, the courthouse is abuzz with
activity. People filing paperwork of one sort or another – applying for marriage licenses,
recording death certificates, renewing fishing licenses, recording property deeds,
registering boats or cars and so on.
The Cape Cod Times report was vague, Tom believes there is more to the story,
even if it is not yet public. While the weekly Port Hastings Gazette will not scoop the
newest information, Tom needs an angle for his story. The Executive Director Lacey
Saunders has lived in Port Hastings for several years. He first met her when she worked
as the Admin for the Port Hastings Housing Authority. She often provided insight into
families needing extra help during the winter months. The innuendo that she may be
involved in pilfering funds from the County Coalition does not ring true to Tom. He
needs the real story.
He recalled when Lacey moved to Port Hastings several years ago. She had
walked out of her first marriage after less than two years and like many people, had
summered on the Cape and remembered those happy times. Summers, waitressing as a
student had been lucrative; she’d find work again. Winter Cape Cod is different from
summer Cape Cod. Winter is cold, raw and bleak. Gray fills the days with weeks of total
cloud and fog cover when the sun does not shine.
Winter waitressing did not pan out. Spending time in the evenings at the Whale
Watch’s bar, nursing a single draft beer, she made the connections to get the job at the
Town Hall. While she is not what Tom considers a “looker,” she was well groomed, her
brunette shoulder length hair always neatly tied back. She wore her fitted denim jeans,
fashionable brown leather mid-calf boots and an Irish fisherman’s sweater with certain

By the Sea

Page 7 of 19

flair. Along with a pleasant smile and being able to answer the telephone, take messages,
type and file, she landed a part time job at the Housing Authority. Having lived through
tough times in her first winters on the Cape, she was compassionate about helping others
in dire straits. Tom needs to dig deeper into this story.
“Hello, Tom, wha’cha’ doin’ here today?” comes a familiar voice from behind
him.
“Well, hello Mary, I might ask the same of you. What are you doing here?”
surprised to see Martin’s neighbor here at the courthouse. “Getting hitched? Fishing
license? Quiet here today, isn’t it?”
“Giving flu shots. You missed the sign at the front door – offices temporarily
closed for the afternoon. Everyone is at the annex for their annual shot. I just came over
here to see if we missed anyone. Have you had your flu shot this season?”
“Nah, that’s okay. I’ll get mine later. Just looking for news. Oh, Deputy Dog
Dave is coming in the door now.
“Hey Dave, how’s it going?”
“Not too bad. Yourself?”
“Just checking in for story data. Can we talk?”
“In your office?” While Tom must abide Mary when he is in Martin’s
neighborhood, no reason to include her here in the courthouse lobby. Soon enough, she
will be pumping me for news on the audit.
“Come on in,” the Deputy closes his door, tosses his baseball-type sheriff’s cap
on a nearby wall hook, “Score two points!”

By the Sea

Page 8 of 19

He removes his khaki vest with its badge and wraps it around his office chair,
then he plunks down in the seat. He fills the space, his firm chest indicating he could still
compete in bench press exercises. Tom recalls Dave as the top athlete during their high
school football days, someone Tom wrote about in the school newspaper.
“What do you know about the audit at the County Housing Coalition?
“Not too much. But it’s rumored that the Director’s marriage was in trouble. Her
spouse moved out, has an apartment in Oceanside down by the water.”
“Really, I hadn’t heard that. They seemed to be a well-matched pair. Have a
house in Port Hastings, not spacious but pricey. But then, all houses in Port Hastings are
pricey.”
“Is their Port Hastings house on the market?”
“Not that I know. Anything else to share?”
“That’s about it for now. Keep in touch, see if anything else pops up.”

4
It’s Wednesday morning, deadlines fast approaching and Tom is still grappling
for new information into the County Housing Coalition (CHC) audit. When he
telephoned their office late yesterday afternoon, no updates. Nothing to connect the story
to Port Hastings even though the Coalition has worked with multiple families and
properties here. So far, no local angle to work into the report.
Refreshing his stale coffee, Tom stares at his monitor. His eyes glaze over. What
is missing? Always able to put a twist on local news, this one has him flummoxed. He

By the Sea

Page 9 of 19

takes pride in his reporting expertise, never just rewording the Cape Cod newspaper or
TV reports. Lacey’s Port Hastings connection does not add luster to the story.
Maybe I’m trying too hard. Time to change story lines, he thinks to himself as he
shuts down his computer, gathers his notebook and shuffles out of the office.
Tom heads to the police station to check the police blotter. There must be
something other than traffic incidents. John, the rookie with front office duties, looks up
through the clear Plexiglas screen surrounding the scarred and cluttered ancient-looking
desk as Tom comes through the open front door.
“Good morning officer, how’s it going?” Tom greets him generically; he doesn’t
recall names when he can’t connect them to a story.
“By any chance, has the Medical Examiner filed his report about cause of death
of that body we found on the beach?”
“Wait here. Give me a minute to check with the detective in the back room.”
Tom leans back toward the wall, resting alongside a nearby empty bookcase. He
has no choice; this is not a waiting room. There are no chairs in this bland hallway
entrance.
Momentarily, Detective Jimmy King appears from the back, “Yep, report came in
early this morning. Have a look,” he shares the folder with Tom. “Very interesting! The
body was filled with diphenhydramine.”
“And what is diphenhydramine?” Tom asks.
“It is the active ingredient in Benadryl.”
“Benadryl, the stuff I take for hay fever? Can cause death?”
“Apparently so. Who knew!”?

By the Sea

Page 10 of 19

“Wonder how much of a dose to be fatal. Any ID on the body?” Tom quizzes.
“It’s a male, Caucasian, probably between fifty and sixty years old. Other than
that, still John Doe. No recent reports of anyone missing. It’s a mystery,” King replies
shrugging his shoulders.
“What do you think? Murder or suicide? Any chance you guys have anything
new on the County Housing Coalition audit report? More details?” Tom prods.
“Nope, nothing new on that front. But you can report John Doe’s death by
Benadryl or a similar medication.”
Relieved, Tom has fresh news for this week’s Gazette, but the CHC story still
puzzles him.

5
Damn those reporters. Sitting on her patio, Lacey’s head is spinning. Her world
spiraling out of control. Having state auditors in her office for the past few months had
not been pleasant. She knew it would not be long before they discovered the
discrepancies. She needed more time to cover the shortfalls and camouflage the loans.
Today, last day of the month, the auditors submitted their findings to their home
office. Within hours, the media learned of the shortages and blasted the irregularities
through all channels. The big story on television and in the newspaper.
Publically, she’s not connected to the shortages. She did not know if the auditors
suspected her. If they did, they were certainly circumspect about it. She could not be
sure.

By the Sea

Page 11 of 19

But now, her options changed. Time to flee. She had secreted enough cash from
transactions over the years to live comfortably while relocating to the Middle East. No
one would think to look for her in Bahrain or Dubai. How fortunate she had met Dan
Arrowsmith at the Whale Watch. Fund raising for the Coalition, she was also looking to
enrich herself.
Over the years, she learned there was hidden wealth among many Cape Codders.
Not fooled by their tattered designer label sweaters or threadbare jeans, she flitted among
them. If they were alone on weeknights at a bar, they were fair game for dalliances.
Regular gym workouts kept her modest figure in check along with her sunshine-streaked
hair and mini-skirts. Men liked to chat her up. Weekly visits with Martin at the Whale
Watch kept her up-to-date on local happenings.
Dan had lived in Saudi Arabia as a young man when his father was the official
portrait artist for the royal family. Now Dan managed a Nantucket gallery of worldrenown artists. His Middle Eastern connections were strong; he had introduced her to
financial people with multiple places to put her resources. Dan divorced and available,
nevertheless she kept him at bay. His curly brown hair, year round tan, youthful
physique and ownership of a small yacht failed to charm her. His business partners were
of greater interest to her.
She was a quick study on where to put money; she just needed to raise money.
Through diligence, she had found the means. The Coalition received substantial sums
from the Federal Government to buy foreclosed homes, renovate them and then sell or
rent them to people with low or moderate incomes. It was not instant success; it took time
for her to rise through the organization from Administrative Assistant to Executive

By the Sea

Page 12 of 19

Director. A trusted employee, she convinced the Board to let her be the general contractor
for renovations and handle these accounts, cost saving for the Coalition. Bingo! Now she
had a free hand with the Coalition’s treasury.
The Sheriff’s office remains mystified over the body found at Cove Harbor. No
ID for it and no one local reported missing. But it will only be a matter of time until the
man’s identity is determined.
She knows it is Lance, her sometime arm candy after her second husband had
moved on. When she needed an occasional escort to a charity fete or auction, Lance
served. Retired early from banking, a scratch golfer, living in the same condominium
complex where she resided, he was convenient. Sometimes he stayed over night,
sometimes he did not.
Daily she relives the night she found Lance’s body. For weeks now, the
circumstances haunt her. That evening she had invited a few people for drinks and a light
supper after a fundraiser for a local fisherman’s accident expenses. The evening had
gone well. Dan stayed behind when everyone left. Often he was last to leave, always
hoping she would invite him to stay the night.
Lacey continued to put him off, moving around the condo dumping glass contents
in the sink, wiping spills from the counter, rearranging chairs. But when she opened the
door to her second bedroom, she discovered Lance face down on the floor. She screamed.
Dan came running. “What’s wrong?”
“OMG!” Call 9 – 1 – 1.”
“No, can’t do that.”
“Why?”

By the Sea

Page 13 of 19

“Just can’t.”
“We can’t leave him here. Are you sure he’s dead? Maybe he just had a heart
attack or something.”
“He’s dead. No pulse.” Dan stated as he bent over the body, being careful not to
touch him.
“Well, let’s call the police, then.”
“Can’t.”
“Why not?”
In Lacey’s mind, the wheels began to turn again. Dan had seemed too calm under
the circumstances. Why?
“Dan, he’s stone cold. He must have been here for a couple hours. I never noticed
he was missing from the party.”
“No, remember your position at the Housing Coalition and the audit going on,
you don’t want to be associated with the body. We just need to get him out of here while
it is still dark.”
We really should have called some one in authority, instead I let Dan talk me out
of that suggestion. Weary and scared, she had allowed Dan to guide her actions. She
found a blanket to wrap around the body as Dan backed his Toyota pickup truck into her
drive way. Together they wrangled the corpse into the truck bed and covered it with the
tarpaulin Dan kept there.
Dan then determined to drive to Cove Beach in Port Hastings, confident this outof-the-way beach was apt to be deserted at night. He was right; no one was there. He

By the Sea

Page 14 of 19

drove his truck as far over the hard packed sand as possible. Then he stopped the truck.
Together the two of them hoisted the body onto the beach close to the incoming tide line.
It was nearly dawn when Dan returned her to her condo; he hoped to stay awhile.
But as quickly as he pulled into the driveway, she bolted from the truck cab. Keys in
hand, she rushed to her front door, unlocked it, entered and slammed the door shut.

6
As Dan collects his coffee “regular” from the Dunkin Donuts counter, his eye
catches the headlines of The Cape Cod Times: “Dead Body Found on Beach.” Not a
good way to start his day. He sits his coffee down, shoves his hand into his pants’ pocket,
and grabs two loose coins. He pushes the coins into the newspaper display dispenser,
pulls the single remaining copy of the day’s paper, slams close the dispenser window,
picks up his coffee and heads to his late model Porsche in the parking lot.
Any other day, Dan would have laid the paper aside to read when he arrived at the
gallery. But today, he does not turn on the engine; instead he sits there. Taking a gulp of
his hot coffee, he scans the lead story. According to the Medical Examiner, the cause of
death was an overdose of diphenhydramine. Diphenhydramine, the active ingredient in
Benadryl, this can cause death? Incredulous, a common allergy medicine caused
Lance’s death? Lance must have had a bad heart or something, and the papers are not
reporting the whole story. So far, the police have not ID’d the body or at least, they have
not revealed who it is.
When I dropped those pills in Lance’s drink, I only meant to knock him out for a
few hours, not kill him, Dan thinks to himself. Did we leave any evidence with his body

By the Sea

Page 15 of 19

when we dumped him? When they eventually figure out who he is, I can’t be tied to him. I
live on Nantucket. He lives on the main land.
He wallows in his thoughts as he nibbles the lid of his foam coffee cup, the
beverage now stone cold. Of course, they will question Lacey when they ID Lance. They
were neighbors in the condo complex. The coroner will eventually come close to
pinpointing the time of death. They always do. But Lacey can deny being with Lance. I
am her alibi; we were here on the island the whole evening. I’ll get a receipt from
Annie’s Whole Foods where we bought groceries for dinner that day, stayed in and
watched a movie that evening.
A plan in place, Dan heaves a deep sigh, slowly turns on the engine, revels in its
quiet purring as he drives to the gallery.
Business slows this time of year. Vacationers have closed their elegant cottages
and returned to their year-round residences. Dan smugly congratulates himself for
another successful season. Once again, his customer base bought the purchases and
consignments he had negotiated the previous winter. His nouveau riche clientele seek
original artwork from undiscovered artists. They are true futures and options traders.
Subtle when negotiating, Dan knows their game. He plays this game best with island
newcomers; long time residents rarely purchase artwork on Nantucket, their homes filled
with furniture and artwork from generations past.
Dan checks his watch; Lacey will be in her office by now. He tries to call her
anxious to share his scheme with her. He’s confident he has a well-designed plan, but she
may have suggestions for improvement. One of the things he most enjoys about Lacey is
her creative and keen mind. Pushing the buttons on his desktop phone to her private

By the Sea

Page 16 of 19

office line, he waits for her to pickup on the other end. No answer, instead her perky
voice on the answering machine asks him to leave a message. Nope, not leaving a
message, he quickly hangs up. Next he tries her home phone. Again, no answer! “Hey
Lacey, it’s Dan, give me a call when you get this message. I’ll be at the gallery most of
the day.”
Turning back to his desk, he rips yesterday’s page from his daily calendar and
tunes in his desktop radio.
“ …Breaking News, Lacey Saunders was arraigned early this morning in
Barnstable County Courthouse on charges of embezzlement of more than $100,000 from
the County Housing Coalition.
“Being able to post the $75,000 bond and never having had any other illicit
actions, they released her. She is expected back in court next month.”
This explains her whereabouts. Now what? Dan’s mind races. What to do?
Where is she now? Guilty or innocent of embezzlement, not important.

7
Passport, bankbooks, what else do I need? Lacey thinks to herself as she races
through her condo assembling her nest egg from its hidden chambers. Having planned
ahead, in case the inevitable happened, and it has, she pulls her stash of U.S. dollars from
her lingerie drawers, home office file folders, winter sweater boxes, empty cereal boxes,
tucked with her screwdrivers, hammers and wrenches, Christmas tree ornaments, her
party dishes and stemware.

By the Sea

Page 17 of 19

Lastly, she pushes her knock-off Gucci sunglasses back into her hair, wraps her
recently acquired Hermes scarf around her cash and makes one last stop in the bathroom.
With all that is vital to her wellbeing now stuffed into her roll-aboard luggage or her
oversized leather satchel, she carefully zips the suitcase and tosses the handbag over her
shoulder.
Taking a deep breath, she exhales slowly as she exits her condo building. Trying
to calm her pounding heart, she deliberately measures each step. Seated behind the
driver’s seat of her late model Buick sedan, before starting the engine, one last time she
scans the landscape and the condo complex. Early evening, not yet dark, she is relieved
she sees no one else in the area: no one peaking out windows, no workers or landscapers
on the grounds. There are lights in very few windows; most of her neighbors have not yet
come home from work.
When the police arrived at the office earlier this morning, they did catch her off
guard. This was probably their intention. Arrested on suspicion of embezzling more than
$100,000 was only the tip of the iceberg, she feared. She has no intention to repay the
money; this is the largesse to her new life. Fortunately, after the booking and
fingerprinting ordeal, being able to post bond, she was released on her own recognizance.
With no other arrests or even traffic tickets, they did not deem her a flight risk. Of course,
she would make her court appearance.
Little do the officials know of her grand plan. Now in the next few hours, she
must turn her plan and dream into reality. Since she had been arrested at her desk, no one
would expect her to return to work. No one will be looking for her for a few days. Dan
might try to call, but their relationship does not require an immediate reply.

By the Sea

Page 18 of 19

Lacey turns her car onto the mid Cape highway and drives toward Providence.
She plans to park her car at the Providence Convention Center, check in to a nearby hotel
and pay cash for one night. The next day, ride the Amtrak train to Penn Station, New
York City, switch trains to get to JFK Airport, board a plane to Switzerland and then to
Montenegro. From her research, no one will trace her there and if they do, the country
will not return her to the USA. With her small fortune, she can live comfortably for years
in Montenegro.

By the Sea

Page 19 of 19


