In  the  early  hours  when  mom  sleeps  sideways  on  the  bed  and  the  dog’s  eyes  are  still  
heavy,   I   look   forward   to   having   coffee   alone.   I   sit   at   the   kitchen   table   covered   in  
newspapers  awkwardly  folded  and  stacked,  napkins,  a  set  of  keys,  and  a  wide,  blue  
bowl  containing  three  mini  oranges,  a  red  onion  and  scotch  tape.  I  sit  and  wait  for  
the   house   to   come   alive.   This   happens   slowly   at   first,   then   all   at   once.   The   house  
breathes.  I  notice  which  coats  are  flung  and  which  are  carefully  set  on  the  backs  of  
chairs.  I  notice  the  life,  the  parts  of  the  house  that  sigh  and  the  parts  that  choke.    
  
Dad’s  office  sits  behind  the  kitchen  and  smells  of  cigarettes.  On  his  desk  are  stacks  of  
letters,   bills,   and   other   important   papers.   There   is   a   pattern   within   the   chaos,   a  
reason   why   the   3-­‐pack   of   golf   balls   sits   on   the   left   of   the   desk   and   the   Fritos   lay  
folded   on   the   right   and   a   pamphlet   reading   Our   Lady   of   Fatima   with   a   portrait   of  
Mother  Mary  rests  directly  atop  the  shelf  in  the  center.    
  
Each  object  tells  a  story.  The  mittens  defrosting  on  the  kitchen  counter  leave  little  
pools   of   water   and   say   something   about   winter   and   bad   habits.   This   is   the   stuff   that  
passes   quickly   and   is   forgotten   by   the   history   books.   Who   will   tell   the   future  
generations   about   stale   Cheerios   and   half-­‐drunk   liters   of   Diet   Pepsi   going   stale?  
Who  will  tell  about  what  it  meant  to  have  parents  that  worked  60  hours  a  week  in  
shiny  offices  with  tiny  windows?    
  
I   remember   the   earlier   years   when   it   was   expected   that   dad   would   come   home  
angry   at   something.   He   hated   the   cartoons   dancing   on   the   television   screen;   he  
hated   the   soccer   cleats   crowding   the   front   door,   the   slow   ice   machine   in   the  
refrigerator,  the  bodies  of  dog  hair  that  gathered  in  the  corners  of  the  kitchen;  and  
he  told  us  about  all  of  it  without  saying  a  word.  His  tie  spoke  by  the  way  it  strangled  
him  beneath  his  suit.  Each  tie  told  a  story  of  exhaustion.  The  silver  wristwatch  with  
the  large,  black  face  clung  to  him.  It  asked  him  constantly  with  a  terrible  politeness  
to  remember  the  time,  remember  the  time,  the  time,  so  that  even  before  bed  it  had  
its  place  with  him  upon  the  nightstand.    
  
Mom  did  her  best  to  balance  out  the  stress.  She  led  my  Girl  Scout  troupe  in  the  5th  
and   6th   grade   and   drove   carpool.   She   drove   “mom’s   car”,   a   Chevy   Trailblazer   with  
grey,   fuzzy   seats   that   let   me   sleep   or   pretend   to   sleep   while   Rod   Stewart   played.  
Every   car-­‐ride   my   personality   developed   slightly.   It   was   routine   that   we   drove   an  
hour  outside  of  St.  Louis  past  an  isolated  Wal-­‐Mart  and  scattered  farms  to  a  stretch  
of  three  mowed  fields  outlined  in  ponds  and  swamps  where  I  had  soccer  practice.  In  
the   summer,   swarms   of   flies   congregated   around   the   lamps   that   kept   the   fields   lit  
past  9  o’clock.  During  fall  we  packed  sweatshirts  in  our  bags  in  case  the  temperature  
dropped.  We  never  saw  the  fields  in  winter.  They  probably  froze  over.  We  played  on  
uncorrupted  soil—beat  up  only  by  the  feet  of  young  girls  gaining  confidence  with  a  
soccer  ball.  Who  will  speak  about  damaged  soccer  cleats  and  white  nets  wearing  and  
stained  with  mud?  

Time  passes.  Relationships  shape-­‐shift  and  transform  like  a  tree  aging  and  gaining  
height   until   it   leans   a   little   and   dies   and   another   trees   sprouts   and   buds.   Dad   got  
happy.  Some  nights  I  spot  him  and  mom  kissing  in  the  kitchen,  her  back  to  his  chest,  
their   hands   locked,   her   head   bent   towards   his.   She   bought   a   book   on   learning   to  
forgive   and   frequent   flowers   from   dad   started   showing   up   on   her   office   desk.   My  
brother   and   sister   and   I   could   sense   they   were   having   sex   again.   When   the   two   of  
them   sighed,   the   house   sighed.   There   bodies   were   older   than   the   house   and   for   that  
reason,  the  most  experienced  objects  it  contained.    
  
Our   suburb   neighborhood   sits   15   comfortable   minutes   outside   of   St.   Louis   city.   It  
also   ages.   Mom   tells   me   how   dad   started   a   tomato   garden   on   the   left   side   of   the  
house  after  all  of  the  kids  left,  and  about  the  family  down  the  street  who  lost  their  
son.  He   drank  and  drove  and  was  found  dead  at  4:30  am  on  the  side  of  Tesson  Road  
with  his  body  twisted  and  his  neck  snapped  sideways.  Like  this,  the  neighborhood  
and   every   other   object   change.   The   objects   describe   time   to   me.   How   it   leaves  
nothing   unaltered.   How   it   makes   broken,   purple   corpses   out   of   young   men   and  
grounded  fathers  out  of  chain-­‐smoking,  bullying  dads.    
  
Our  district  holds  over  a  hundred  homes,  trashcans,  and  mailboxes.  Each  yard  offers  
a   bush   or   a   plant   or   something   like   it.   There   are   families   and   cereal   boxes   and  
ashtrays  with  marble  surfaces  like  dads  that  tell  the  stories  no  one  wants  to  hear—
stories   about   tired   fathers   and   suburbia   and   loneliness   and   dreams   that   persist  
anyways.   Some   houses   offer   porches   like   ours   where   two   neglected   hockey   sticks  
rest  in  the  corner  against  a  brick  wall.    
  
When   suburbia   speaks   few   listen   besides   the   blue   jays   and   the   cardinals   darting  
from  tree  to  tree  and  the  hawk  that  sometimes  perches  on  the  tallest  oak  in  our  back  
yard.  When  suburbia  speaks  I  have  to  turn  off  the  television  and  listen  real  close  like  
nothing   else   matters.   Sometimes   if   I’m   lucky   I   can   hear   it   when   the   house   is   quiet  
and  I’m  alone  and  there  aren’t  any  cars  on  the  road,  the  coffee  stained  mug,  the  toast  
crumbs   on   the   glass   plate,   dad’s   black   leather   wallet   busting   with   too   many   one  
dollar  bills  on  the  table,  the  objects  in  their  stillness,  all  make  magic.  
  
