Ceaselessly she labored, one brush stroke at a time, perfectly placed on
the canvases surrounding her. The landscape in her imagination needed a
place to be, to exist in the world, and these canvases were their
homes. They needed a place to dwell, and the artist delivered, placing
their colors and details together, swishing them into reality with every
swish of paint. She birthed new worlds in her art that told stories of beauty
and hope, dreams and realities swirling together in one unexpected
place. The abilities of her hands were one of a kind, unmatched and
carrying an awe that resonated in the soul of every onlooker. She created
magic in her tiny studio, the artist did. She captured wonder and made it
possible for one to physically see the heart of a person. The artist was a
gift to the world around her, but the artist could not believe it, and the artist
was sad.
The sad she carried wasn't the kind of sad that comes and goes from
hearing unkind words or forgetting something important. It wasn't the sad
that worries for a friend or longs for a lover. It wasn't a circumstance sort
of sad. The artist's sad was a wedge in her very spirit, a feeling in her gut
that she had gotten used to over the years—a feeling of just this. She was
what she was, her art was her art, and her life simply carried on as just
this. She would always be just this. Her art would always be just this. Her
life would always be just this. Sometime in her past, this feeling had
settled in her that she—her art and her life—weren't worth anything.
In her tiny studio hung hundreds of canvases accompanied by the faint
haze of dust in the air. As she painted she would hear the bell on her door
jingle as interested passers-by poked their heads in to look around. A
jingle on the way in, and shortly after, a jingle on the way out. Jingle,
jingle. Jingle, jingle. Thus was the backdrop for her creation. Every once
in a while, the jingles would be slightly farther apart as someone made
their way to the back of the studio to meet her. The ones who could see
through the dim and the dust would catch a glimpse of the wonder that was
before their eyes, curious to see more. They would exchange their
greetings and compliment her work, which she was certain was only a bit
of politeness in action, nice people simply desiring not to offend before the
ring of the second jingle followed them out the door. She had grown used
to this routine, painting and creating, a few jingles, and back to her art.
The air around her was not void of praise. As customers entered, she
would hear their murmurings of delight over her art. Oohs and ahhs,

compliments and encouragements. They would use words like magical
and amazing, magnificent and incredible. They would tell her she had a
gift, that she had talent with a paintbrush that was, in their humble opinion,
unmatched. A swirl of truth surrounded her, but she could not make
herself buy into all their compliments. She didn't consciously think every
one of these people was lying to her, she just could not believe these
wonderful things could ever be true about her art. Detached from the
words that should fill her, she heard them, but could not receive them. She
had been hardened by just this--the sadness that built up around her heart
an impenetrable wall. In these praises, all she felt were waves of
resistance, giant fists pushing away anything that might threaten the
sadness.
On occasion, someone would inquire about purchasing one of her pieces,
an occurrence that always shocked her, forcing her to question why
someone, who likely could have anything they desired, would settle for just
this. She judged them, her naive customers, for looking upon her work as
something that it surely wasn't, for seeing it as something to be treasured
and valued. She scoffed at them as they jingled out the door, so carefully
carrying such a worthless painting under their arm like it was made of
crystal. "What do they think they are getting?" she thought as she handed
over her masterpieces to people who could see in her artwork what she
could not. She felt as if she was deceiving them, taking money for these
silly things she made. She believed it so much so, in fact, that she always
took whatever amount the customer suggested. One dollar, 5 dollars, 20
dollars. Her customers received these works of beauty for nothing, and as
such, they began to be blinded by her sadness as well, seeing her work
through the lens of the price they paid for such beauty.
What should have been priceless instead took on the value of mere dirt,
one-of-a-kind masterpieces being treated as mass produced prints. Her
work ended up in people's attics and garbage cans, hanging behind doors
and above toilets. The owners of these pieces forgot the wonder they
initially saw as the mistreated paintings took on the value at which they
were sold. "It was only 10 dollars," they would say as they replaced it with
something they liked more, "not much of a loss." They weren't inclined to
care much about something that had come so cheap, but the artist couldn't
fathom anyone ever agreeing to pay more for her work, so she
settled. Day in and day out, she settled. "Better to be sold for little than
not be sold at all," she thought, and so she kept giving her treasures away
for pennies, allowing the beauty she was creating to be trampled on and
abused, neglected and ignored.

The artist watched her art leave in the hands of the people that decided its
meager value, and the artist grew sadder.
On one particularly grey morning, the artist went to her studio as usual,
ready to participate in yet another ordinary day. She shuffled up to her
door, fidgeted around with the lock, and entered her studio expectant for
nothing special. As she sat in her studio, preparing her paints and
canvases, the hovering clouds moved ominously outside her
window. Their colors spoke of thunder and rain, and the little town sat in
stillness waiting for its announcement. As the hours passed, she dove into
her creative solitude with the relief of knowing that the storm would keep
away the interruptions of customers. At least today, she wouldn't have to
appease their meaningless chatter. She could work in the peace of the
gusts of wind and rapping of rain on the back windows, kept company only
by her thoughts and the black clouds stealing glances into her oasis.
Then came the jingle of the door. She emerged from the back of her
studio confused and shocked. "Who could possibly be out strolling in this
chaos?" she asked herself. As she turned the corner out into the shop,
she spotted the cause of the jingle, a little old man dripping a puddle of
water onto her floor. He looked up at her as he squeezed his hat out,
streams of water dripping into the river he had created at his feet. His face
was drawn with desperation and relief, and as her eyes locked on his she
was overcome with compassion for this poor man who had been caught in
the dreadful storm.
"Yours was the only door unlocked, Madame, I am so sorry for the mess I
am making."
"Oh, not at all," she responded as she rushed over to him, grabbing a chair
on her way. "Please, have a seat and rest as I get you some tea to warm
up."
They sat in silence for a moment longer than felt normal, just listening to
the storm rage outside the windows of the shop. As the man settled down,
finally able to relax from his trek through the unexpected downpour, he
began to look around through the steam rising off his mug at the place into
which he had stumbled. The artist watched as his eyes moved slowly from
painting to painting across the walls of the shop. "Here it comes," she
thought, "here comes the part where this sweet old man is going to say
nice polite things because he is stuck here until the rain lets up."
The seconds passed as if she were waiting for infinity. His eyes lingered

on each piece as if he were taking a long drink of water in the desert. He
wasn't looking at her, but the artist felt as if he were seeing straight through
her with the intensity of his stare. As he gazed upon her work, she wanted
to disappear into nothingness and hide from the strangers deafening
presence. She squirmed, trying to blend into the back of her wooden chair
and become unnoticeable. If she could have covered every painting,
removing them from his sight in a split second, she thought she might have
done it. She had had many customers, but this man was different. He
carried something with him that felt important, and she didn't know if she
could handle watching him judge her work.
She risked a moment of looking up from her tea and caught a glimpse of a
tear running down the man's cheek. As he brushed it away, he turned to
look at her. With a deep breath and a look of wonder, he simply
whispered, "These are marvelous." And as he lifted himself off of his chair
to inch himself closer to the canvases adorning the walls, the artist felt
something in her core that she had trouble defining--something like a tiny
flash of belief. There was a twinge in her gut that believed this man, and
he thought her pieces were marvelous.
He scooted around the room, painting to painting, drinking in each one for
minutes at a time. Eventually, she rose to join him, standing just behind
him as he looked upon one of her best pieces.
"How much do you sell these for, my dear?"
The artist had had this conversation dozens of times. She shuffled her feet
and looked down at the ground as she prepared herself for what would
inevitably follow her answer to his question—an offer of small change for
something she had worked so hard to create. Without looking up she gave
him her standard speech.
"You may have it for whatever you feel is worth paying. My pieces are sold
for what you decide."
As the man watched her discomfort and listened to her shaky words, a
frown crept across his face. He heard the sadness in her heart coming
through these words, each word carrying an emptiness with it he didn't
expect from such a normal question, from such a magnificent artist. He
hadn't anticipated his simple inquiry to be met with such a rehearsed
answer, and her sadness saddened his heart. Noticing that the storm had
calmed down, he shook off his grief and began to gather up his hat and
coat.

The artist was confused by the man's sudden change of demeanor. He
had been so taken with her art, and now he was leaving. She was used to
the leaving, the jingle, but somehow the idea of this stranger walking out of
her shop without a painting didn't sit well in her soul. This moment could
not end like this. Something wasn't right.
"Sir," she stopped him as he reached for the door to let himself out after
stoically thanking her for the tea and kindness, "may I ask you why you
don't want to take a painting? If it's about money, I told you I will take
whatever you wish to give."
He turned and looked at her, carefully thinking of what to say. He scanned
the room again, looking upon the works of her hands. His eyes wide, he
let them rest back on her. As he let out a long sigh, he finally settled on
what he needed to say.
"My dear, it is absolutely about money. I understand you will take
whatever a person will give, and I suspect that you have been given many
small sums for dozens of your beautiful paintings. I want so badly to leave
with even the smallest bit of the beauty you are able to create under my
arm, but you said that it costs what I feel it is worth, and I simply do not
have the entire world to give you. I reckon you would take what I have,
even if I feel it is not enough, but I cannot in good conscience leave you
with that insult. I will not take advantage of your beauty by allowing it to be
traded for so little. You, my dear artist, are priceless, and such are your
pieces."
His words swirled around her head in such a fury that she almost couldn't
grasp them. They were words she had never heard before, and she didn't
know what they were supposed to mean. Words of worth and value,
respect and honor. This man was saying things which, to her ears,
sounded so foreign, but to her heart somehow sounded so familiar. It was
all new, but somehow his voice sounded like home as he spoke, the
sentences taking on a heavy weight in her soul that she wanted so
desperately to hold onto. As she listened, she felt as if she might drop
them, and that drew her even deeper into all that this old man's eyes were
trying to communicate. His hand rested on the doorknob as he finished
speaking, and the artist wondered if maybe—just maybe—all that the man
was saying was true.
"It has been a pleasure to be in your presence, I thank the storm for this
gift."

With that, he turned the knob and left her standing in her shop in shock.
As the days passed she longed for the old man to wander into her shop
again. Something had happened in her that day that she had never felt
before. There was a hesitant excitement in her, a joy and passion that was
fueling her newest paintings. She looked at her art in amazement, seeing
that it was beautiful and radiant, wondering what had happened to make
this change. What had that day done to her? These new pieces still
looked like her, but they had a brilliance that emanated something entirely
different. She felt alive, and for the first time in her life, she looked upon
herself and felt worthy to live.
Working in her studio one morning, she heard the faint jingle of her door
opening. She felt her heart flip with excitement as she rose to greet the
customer she hoped would be the old man, but as she turned the corner
she found a new stranger perusing her shop. Disappointed, she wove
through the shop towards the man, greeting him on the way. She watched
as he wandered around quicker than she liked, giving her paintings a few
simple glances as he passed through. He stopped before one of her new
pieces, enthralled by the colors on the canvas, and asked the artist her
dreaded question.
"How much for this?"
She considered defaulting to her normal response—telling the man that he
could have it for whatever he wished to pay—but something in her heart
stopped her. She hesitated for a moment as she considered the painting
he was interested in. She saw the shear magnitude of it, the way the
colors flowed together and swept across the page. She saw the details
and the intricacies. She noticed each stroke and every splash of paint,
placed so lovingly on the canvas by her own brush, guided by her own
fingers. She looked at this piece and saw its glory, and she was
proud. Too proud to trade it for pennies.
"That painting is special," she responded, ''and you may have it for $1000."
She was almost embarrassed to have asked so much, but she quickly
pushed the feeling aside, for something in her gut told her that this piece
was important. It was worth the price.
The man nodded his head and considered for a moment, looking the
painting up and down as he furrowed his eyebrows and rubbed his

chin. "Would you take $700?" he finally said.
And with a ferocity that rose up in her from some unknown place, she
looked him in the eye and answered, "No sir, the value of that painting is
non-negotiable."
With that, he tipped his cap, said a polite thank you, and walked out of her
shop with a jingle. She noticed as the door clicked shut that the jingle
sounded less intrusive today, as if the sound had been a bit muffled and
subdued. As she went to the window to watch the man make his way
down the street without having made a purchase, she spotted the old man
standing under the shade of the tree opposite her shop. He looked at her
with love in his eyes and gave her a simple nod. She nodded back, let a
smile slowly creep across her face, and silently realized that her world had
changed. She was all of a sudden delighted to be living just this.
And the artist was happy.	  


