“Stand here for just a minute, I want to get your picture.” The doctor backed away.
“Before and after. You’re going to look gorgeous. Just gorgeous.”
Sheila picked at her nails, unsmiling; the furrows of her forehead soft but deep, the
creases between her nose and chin angling down with her mouth.
“Open your eyes for Dr. Martin now, honey.”
“My eyes are open, Doctor.”
Sheila had a certain pride in her wrinkles, partly due to the money saved by delaying this
process for so many years, and partly because she had never derived her greatest strength
from her looks. Wrinkles were a sign of experience and maturity, but she was ready to
let them go for Murray’s sake.
“Just a little further. That’s right. And one more.” Dr. Martin moved in and out, coming
in for a close-up of the furrows over her lips. He grimaced and grunted.
“Do you really need to do that?” she asked. She meant snivel, but he misunderstood.
“Oh this will be your memento. You don’t want to lose the face entirely, do you, in case
you ever want it back?”
He laughed, picked up a pen and scribbled into his notebook. Dr. Martin himself was
about one-hundred and twenty years old. His face was designed to look exactly that of a
young Eminem, which dated him. But he was bursting with pheromones, and Re-Newed
sexual energy. His nurses and assistants doted on him, trotting in and out, delivering
coffee, messages, tools, pinching each other’s buttocks on the way by.
“That’s enough,” he said, and set the camera down. He turned, jumped up and hung for
a moment by his arms from the exercise bar clamped over the doorway. “All that extra
skin,” he smiled, chatting as he performed a chin up and dropped back to the floor. “That
skin is just going to melt off you.”
Sheila shook her practical head of gray hair. Her lipstick was streaking up the fissures
under her nose. “This really seems so unnecessary,” she said, and looked at the tiles on
the floor. The tiles were the same color and pattern as tiles in a restaurant where she had
once waited tables. “I’ve gotten along all these years with this old thing.”
“But Mr. Webber is right, and you’re due for a change, don’t you think?” Dr. Martin
lifted up an image. “And this is it. This is what we’re after. Isn’t it gorgeous? What a
face.”
It was early Christina Aguilera, Jewel, and Hanson, a youth group of the late 1990’s,
morphed into one face. Vamp, creativity and naughty athleticism. At the time, no one else
had a face like it. Sheila felt her heart skip a beat. “I like it,” she whispered, “but don’t
you think it’s too unusual?”
“Well, we’ve already got a few hundred thousand Cher’s walking around. I can give you
a Courtney Love if you want!” he laughed. “But this is you,” he smiled. “You’re the
first.”
Sheila sighed. It did seem like a necessity. And she tried to feel grateful. Anti-aging
genetic therapy and photongraphy certainly weren’t available to everyone. And wasn’t it
an advantage on the job market, to have eighty years experience in business!
Though of course, Sheila wouldn’t need to work, she could afford to retire. And in behalf
of the aging, hungry and homeless workers, in honor of all those people who had given
their eyes so she could have what she had, she was grateful. Anyway, she was doing this
mostly for Murray. She thought, we might finally take a vacation and schedule in a baby.
Until recently, they’d been so busy.
Already, Sheila was feeling the effects of the Re-Newal system, which she been taking
for the past six months. She’d lost 45lbs and gained significant muscle. Her libido was
increasing on the combination hormone/gene therapy: the only side effect was excess
body hair, which wasn’t really a problem. She just had the hairs removed.
The doctor stood behind her, felt her arm, shoulder, brushed her cheek with one finger,
and leaned against her side for balance as he examined the shape of her face. Women of

her class were almost frighteningly exciting to Dr. Martin. It was becoming more
difficult to pick them out of a crowd. There was a hidden mystery, a real depth there.
“I find something about you fascinating,” he said and leaned closer. “Have you ever
been to Europe?”
“How often will I need a touch-up?” she leaned away unsure if she was expected to
respond to his prying.
Dr. Martin clucked. “It all depends on gravity,” he said, “and your own personal taste, but
probably every ten years, if you don’t mind the discomfort. Would you want a scalp
replacement just now?” he asked. “I’m not saying you need to. Many people like gray
hair.”
“Well you know the saying,” she whispered, “One tissue at a time.”
Privately, Sheila hoped the next tissues would belong to Murray, the sweaty ape. But he
was such an iconoclast. He’d never found a face good enough to call his own, and he
controlled enough money now that face hardly mattered. Murray was waiting for her in
the reception area.
“You might have a hard time getting used to the new me,” she warned him.
“How different could you seem, Sheil?” he chuckled. “After all, it’s still you.” Murray
patted her back, and glancing at framed antique “People” magazine covers Dr. Martin
kept hanging on the walls in his office. Murray sucked at a carton of milk, forceps
bulging. Sheila grimaced at thoughts of his sexual energy.
“What are you looking at?” he asked, catching her glance. “Growth hormones have never
bothered me. Don’t you want to be healthy like me?” He scratched at her arm, grunting.
“Look at these nails. This stuff is great for skin, nails, hair, bones, anything like that.”
“Just because a little is good doesn’t mean a lot is better, Mur.”
“Don’t call me that, O.K. Sheila, sweetheart?”
The hormones, added to the milk after the Riots of ‘21, had recently priced milk out of
reach of the average consumer. Many families -- and there was an article about this
online-- were spending more than half their monthly salaries on milk. Milk, like paper,
had become a luxury, a status purchase, and Sheila had mixed feelings about drinking it
in public.
Murray brushed her hand off his arm. “The doctor told me,” Sheila whispered, “Now that
we’re taking DNA in the swish, we should avoid the dairy.” She looked at the carton.
“Nothing bothers me,” he said. He pawed her thigh with a fiddly, nervous hand, arched
his thick white brow, and stared out the window. He turned back and looked again at
Sheila’s leg, a critical twitch jingling on the corner of his cheek.
Sheila adjusted her skirt.
The nurse, a hunched black man with creases across his cheeks, came out. “Nurses aren’t
paid as well as doctors,” Murray sighed with pity, “Poor guy,” and Sheila let the nurse
lead her into a blue-gray treatment room.
“Put on this tunic and take a seat,” the nurse said, his wedding band flashing as he handed
her a folded piece of cloth. “Dr. Rook will be right in.”
Sheila stopped him.
“Before you leave,” she let her curiousity get the better of her, “If you don’t mind my
asking...you’re married?”
The old man looked at her and smiled.
“You bet your boots I am,” he said laughing, “Course she’s been dead about twenty years
now, but I can’t help that. I’m still married.”
Sheila looked into his old brown eyes. “Yes,” she said, “thank you,” and he left.
She undressed, looking into the antique stainless steel paper-towel dispenser over the
sink, smoothing her face back with her arm, trying to imagine how it would look. She
put on the tunic, played with the ties. She might go back to school again, or become a
teacher this time. Or a figure-skater. She wasn’t sure.
“Well, “Dr. Rook entered the room, enthusiastically chattering. “Aren’t you excited?”
He had a long thing runner’s body, with a stylishly and permanently bashful forehead

4

	  
	  

Milk	   	  
Man	  	   	  

suspending toothy grin from the outside edges of his eyebrows. Sheila smiled for him.
Dr. Rook grabbed her hands, maybe passionately, or maybe it was only his look.
“We’ve got creams, we can treat these, too!” His voice was thin. “You’re not going to
want to have old hands leaning against your new face!”
The nurse came back wearing a surgical facemask and holding a tray with two tiny
caplets in a cup. “This is optional,” he said, “Take it or don’t,” he said. “It don’t matter
to me.” She hesitated, and the old man turned his face side-to-side, annoyed to be
repeating himself. “You think it won’t hurt to lose that face of yours?”
“That’s a good pill,” Dr. Rook said. “Now what do you think Sheila will do when she
heals up, hmmm?” he asked and pinched her cheek. “Hmmm? hmmm? You are going to
be gorgeous.”
Sheila took the pills and settled back in the adjustable chair. Tiles on the floor and walls
had started to swim.

******

When she woke, her face was raw, oozing pink, stripped of pigment. She looked skinned,
slightly swollen and unnatural, like a cartoon character. Dilbert.
An old black wrinkled worker covered her face with ointment and layers of gauze.
“Don’t smile, honey, you’ll loosen the seal,” he said, and he held her hand for a minute.
“I’ll go get Mr. Webber.”
Over the next several days, scabs formed and peeled in grotesque yellow-orange swaths.
She sat in the rocking chair, next to Murray who was drinking vitamin fortified beer and
watching “Oh My God” reruns.
“Ha!” he laughed. “It’s classic!”
5

	  
	  

Milk	   	  
Man	  	   	  

Her face was over-exposed, like a tooth that lost a filling, and the air hurt. She tried and
failed to eat genetically engineered mock-tuna, worrying that the new face might be
lifting off the old one. Her face itched.
“They didn’t say it would itch.”
Murray also had a mock-tuna sandwich, with a glass of milk, hardly even chewing, one
skeptical eyebrow hooked high moving up and only slightly down on his forehead.
“You know, I just wonder who the hell Dr. Watzizname thinks we are?” he asked. Sheila
practiced isometric exercises in her chair. “It’s not what I expected,” he said. He
frowned. “It’s not you.”
Sheila still felt hungry. “Who is it?”
“Sheila,” he said. “Is that a real question, or is that the face?”
“Dr. Webber says we’re not supposed to be eating so much of this stuff,” she said.
“Oh, c’mon Sheil,” he said, laughing. “Food is food, for Christ’s sake. What’s it gonna
do? Turn you into a....?”
“An animal?” she asked. This was listed as a rarely documented side effect.
Murray’s his hairy knuckles collected crumbs as he rolled soggy tuna salad around in his
mouth.
“And all I’m saying, in all honesty,” he paused to swallow, “is that once the swelling
goes down and scabs are gone, under all that, you’re you.” Murray slugged down the last
of his milk. “You’re just don’t look like you. And how long do you think before that
forehead gets creased again? Like that. Do you have to do that?” he asked. “That
expression is what got you into trouble in the first place.”
The guest on the Holy Mary guest podcast was an eighty year-old man having an affair
with his wife’s twenty-year-old adopted daughter. Murray held out the empty glass to
Sheila.
“You don’t care what happens, Murray,” she said. “I’m telling you I need vegetables.
This is too much protein, Murray.”

6

	  
	  

Milk	   	  
Man	  	   	  

“Go to the store, then.”
“I don’t want to go to the grocery store. I feel weird,” she said. She took the glass, refilled it, and emptied it into her mouth. She wanted something, but wasn’t quite sure
what. She poured herself another glass, and she couldn’t remember if she’d drunk a glass
or just imagined it? She didn’t feel full.
“And I’m not sure, to tell you the truth, Sheila,” Murray’s voice was raspy. “Not that I
don’t love you, I do. But look at me.” Their eyes met, briefly. They both needed to visit a
hair salon. They had an unusual amount of hair between them.
“I’m not like you,” he said, looking away.“Not counting the gut, which I could get rid of
if I wanted to, but I’ve matured, moved on to new interests. Maybe we have a biological
difference.”
Murray’s cheeks dipped down (sincere apology) as his eyes corkscrewed up (something
funny) at the corners. “I have to admit, I thought you’d seem like a whole new woman.
But you don’t. You are exactly the same as you have ever been.”
She put down her milk.
“My face itches,” she said.
“It looks like it must,” he said. “God.”
Sheila slept for three days while Murray was deciding, out loud, on a vacation. . He was
retired, these were golden years, and he was taking them. She could take her time healing
and he would do whatever. Or not.
Murray puttered around, packing camera bag, camping gear, cigarette roller, hair drying
fluid, bottle suction, cologne, collar shirts, laxatives, supplements. She woke up and
watched as he packed his tennis gear. He tried on a swim suit. “Not bad for my age, huh,
Sheila?”
Her face felt tight around her eyes. The weather was getting hotter. She tossed her bra
onto the couch, her sweater onto the back of the kitchen chair, her stockings on the floor.
She crouched, smoothing down the hair on her arms and legs. She crawled across the
floor, crept up between Murray’s legs.

7

	  
	  

Milk	   	  
Man	  	   	  

“It’s all those hormones,” he said, and pushed her away. “Sorry, Sheil, I didn’t mean to
be so rough. I need to cut my nails.” Sheila wasn’t hurt.
She went to the mirror, playing a little game with her cleavage.
“Are you O.K., Sheila?” he said. “You’re not blinking. You really ought to blink.”
Sheila watched out the window as birds pecked in the feeder. “You go on, Murray,” she
said. “It’s alright.”
“Listen,” Murray looked around for another glass of milk. “You might as well take
advantage of this time to rest while I explore what’s up with me.” Sheila’s thinning gray
hair felt unusually soft, and she pinned it up, standing in front of their picture window.
She could see a neighbor from across the street mowing his lawn.
“You know what I mean, Sheila, when I say I love you. I just need some time alone.”
Murray waited for her to argue. But she didn’t. “No,” he said anyway. “That’s it. Final.”
Sheila went into the kitchen, kicking a pencil along the floor. She opened a can of tuna.
“And ah, ha, Sheila, what’s that supposed to mean, huh?” Murray slammed a door or two
as he finished packing, loading the car. Sheila followed him in and out like a shadow.
“Make up your damn mind, will you?” he finally shouted. “Are you in or out?” She
stepped back into the house and closed the door.
“Bye, Sheila.” Murray’s hormones were already dropping, and he directed the aero-car
West, toward Vegas. Low on milk. He drank too much milk anyway.
“Bye-bye, Murray,” she waved out the window.
Sheila spent the next five days on the couch, napping on and off, snacking, playing with
the magnets on the refrigerator, watching the gold fish.
The doorbell rang. She opened it.
“Mrs. Webber? Oh, excuse me, Mrs. Webber?”
“Yes, Wilbur.” It was her neighbor. He was a farmer who raised apples, and who hadn’t
been married yet though he looked nearly thirty. Most likely, she thought, he couldn’t
afford it.

8

	  
	  

Milk	   	  
Man	  	   	  

“I was, just, thinking you might have a cup of milk I could borrow. I’m in the middle of
making an apple pie, and realized. I’m out of milk.” He had a sweet smile. “If you have a
cup you might spare,” he said.
“You put milk in apple pie?” she asked with a giggle and he blushed.
“Well just on the crust, to make it crispy, you know? But I guess I don’t really need it
that bad.” He looked at her feet and then up to her hair. Wilbur had big old farmer’s eyes,
long thin arms, a warm innocent fragrance.
“That’s all right,” purred Sheila. She laughed. “Oh my, look at me, you’ve caught me!”
Her nighty barely covered the generous swoop of her bosom. “But I’m comfortable, and
we’re old friends, aren’t we Wilbur? So don’t you mind me slopping around the house.”
She invited him in. “Tea?”
Wilbur parked himself awkwardly at the kitchen table. Sheila, making the tea, brushed
against him accidentally -- catching, stretching the fabric, releasing herself -- as she
moved back and forth from the refrigerator, stove, sink, counter. She circled the table,
batted at salt and pepper shakers, jumped when the kettle whistled, forgot the tea, and
poured three cups of milk.
She leaned down to lick at one of them and smiled her shiny new face at him. “I’ve
always been such a lazy bones.” She licked at her milk mustache. “If you’re not in a
great big hurry,” she said, “we could transfer ourselves to the couch, and have a nice
visit?”
Murray got back fourteen days later smelling like cigarettes, beer, and cheese crackers,
but Sheila was gone, her nighty rumpled on the couch, empty cans of tuna fish littering
the counter, all the glasses in the house in the sink with a dried scum of milk on the
bottoms. Murray looked for a note. He made phone calls. He stood out in the yard,
calling, “Sheila!”
A cat wrapped around his legs, and Murray scootched down to scratch it between the
ears. He stared out across the green of his neighbor’s lawn. “Damn,” said Murray. He
had forgotten the milk. He wrinkled his forehead, straightened up and called her name
again.
9

	  
	  

Milk	   	  
Man	  	   	  

10


