Ethel lost it once. In the narthex of the Cathedral to Saints Peter and Paul, she bent over,
releasing guttural heaves that sounded otherworldly, cries that echoed throughout the lofted
space above them. That’s when Jay finally translated their mistakes. “They’re staring at us
again, Mom. We don’t fit in here.” He was right. That slight head-cocking, the pursed lips, the
raised eyebrows—these were not the gestures of welcome. They had been misreading the body
language of discomfort.
Providence had seemed an obvious choice. Having sharpened their English skills in the
years prior to their relocation, they’d felt informed—confident, even—in at least that decision.
They were adaptable people—the Kennedys—but demonstrating such acumen was rarely the
result of enjoyable circumstances. They’d clung instead to their deliberateness, making elaborate
productions out of the few choices still left for to them to make: names, outfits, hometowns. It
was America’s archived dominance that first attracted their attention—its fabled ripeness of
opportunities seeming perfect for their son. And the path that steered them to Rhode Island—it
seemed almost divine. You can imagine their disappointment, then, when they couldn’t track
down God. They had counted on a certain contiguousness to His benevolence—that their
proximity would assure them at least His ear if not His kind hand.
They had formulated and rehearsed an irrefutable pitch, they reckoned, highlighting their
incongruous blend of meek steadfastness, but He was just impossible to find. They tried, too.
They followed their newly acquired standard operating procedures for recovering lost things—
flipping over couch cushions, posting flyers on street poles, offering a moderate yet attractive
reward—but such efforts eventually proved their futility.

Beyond learning the apparently

neighborly custom of checking in on the operational status of one’s refrigerator, related phone

calls did little more than introduce them to the odd collection of names that once held dominion
over their recently assigned phone number.
They did follow some decent leads. They visited His innumerable houses scattered all
over Providence and even the surrounding communities—Scituate, Rehoboth, Pawtucket. Some
were colossally impressive (some not so much) but He was never home, a troubling detail that
troubled no one but the Kennedys. Their neighbors appeared entirely at ease, amused even by
his consistent absence.

None of their respondents could recall a specific event, recent or

otherwise, that involved actually seeing Him there. For a brief moment the Kennedy’s believed
He must have taken up rock climbing. People would look upward as they steadfastly suggested
He was around, but they laughed off their attempts to schedule an appointment.
No one else shared their concern about God’s potential abduction. Some extended
research revealed a generally accepted indifference towards God’s constant sneaking around. As
far as they could tell, it bothered very few people that He hadn’t made an appearance in a good
millennium or two. That’s just how he rolled. The Kennedys did feel a little foolish, however,
to learn that (beyond a few accidental food-stain Jesuses and some hotly contested encounters
with a certain scam-artist-turned-prophet) no record existed of God actually stepping foot in the
U.S. And they had felt so certain choosing Providence.
Eventually the Kennedys had to reassess. They had tried, at first, to simply adjust their
behavior to better fit these learned norms, but such new skin hung awkwardly. Besides, their
search had upturned too many stones. After bemoaning their constant isolation, they suddenly
felt known by everyone in Providence. They could no longer escape the awkward exchanges
spurred on by rumors of their loosely dangling sanity. No matter how apathetic they acted,
someone had encountered the original version of them—too zealous even for an American

audience. After some serious R and D, they opted initially to move next to Nazareth, but their
visas were denied. They weren’t that eager to learn another set of languages anyway, so they
settled eventually on Paradise, Nevada.
It wasn’t what they were expecting, Paradise, but they weren’t about to make the mistake
of acting on assumptions again. And there was something comforting in the noise, the lights, the
proximity to the airport. It reminded them a little of home. Besides, the desert seemed like a
safer choice. They rented a two-bedroom apartment above the bike shop on Swenson Street.
Ted got a job there too—his knowledge of far more complex machinery making him an easy hire.
Ethel vacuumed the endless carpets of Terrible’s Hotel Casino—her English finally coming in
handy. Jay was left home alone most afternoons, assigned the task of reconnaissance work to
assure a smoother assimilation this time around.
Jay enrolled himself in a summer school of sorts, taking up membership in a makeshift
middle-school gang that patrolled their block. He spent his afternoons milling around with a
collection of the kids living above and behind the shops that operated on their block: Deandre
from above the laudromat, Chen from the nail salon, Ricardo from behind the theatre, and
Hannah. The others still harbored reservations about her membership, none too keen on the idea
of a girl in their gang, but Hannah’s parents owned most of the block that employed their parents
and kept a roof over their heads. That, and she could get them into movies for free.
That was the summer of Cowboys and Aliens. The blockbuster camped out all summer in
the one-screen theater that abutted the Kennedy’s west wall. Jay’s bed reverberated with the
buzz of Dolby surround sound, amplifying the soundtrack that rocked him to sleep each night.
After countless supplications, Hannah finally caved and got the five of them tickets to a matinee.
Jay laughed the first time he saw it, mistaking such embellishments for comedy. The cowboys

Paradise Lost

4	  

	  
on screen seemed excessive—their costuming, their hardened expressions, their physical
prowess—all a far cry from the Americans he had encountered. And the aliens—Jay found it all
a little too imaginative to take seriously.
Jay had developed a heightened awareness, at that point, of his peers’ mannerisms. That
they weren’t similarly raucous with belly laughs made him nervous, so he toned it down, letting
escape only the quickest spurts of laughter, but even these occasional and uncontrollable
outbursts still earned him their derision. He left the theater with a bruise on his upper arm that
aligned perfectly with Ricardo’s fisted knuckles. His silence for the duration of the film was less
a product of courtesy and more the result of his confusion at this miscommunication, the constant
replaying of events in his mind overshadowing the story playing out on the screen beyond his
eyes. His friends were obliging, taking great pride in Jay’s ability to illustrate their much vaster
intelligence–as if The Sandlot had loaned them their own Smalls for the summer. They sat him
down on the stoop of the abandoned dollar store and walked him through his mistakes.
“You can’t just laugh,” Chen explained. “It’s disrespectful.”
“I’m sorry,” Jay started. “I didn’t know I was offending anyone.” He attempted to
manage the tension between his desire to earn full inclusion and this rare opportunity to seek
answers outright. “But it just seemed so unrealistic.”
The others shared a look of concern. “Well, yeah…but still…”
“I don’t get it. Is there a legitimate alien problem in America?”
Deandre laughed and shook his head. “Of course not, but there could be.” He was
enjoying this opportunity to try on adulthood, having borrowed the posture of his own father.
“And you don’t want to be on the wrong side of that fight.”

5	  

Paradise Lost
	  

The lot of them looked down in a gesture of grave foreshadowing, almost hoping for the
day that they could defend their country so courageously.

Hannah, recognizing a rare

opportunity to assert her masculinity, chimed in. “If I could just get my hands on some laser
guns, right?”
The other boys nodded, but Jay just shook his head in confusion. “Laser guns? But all
you’d need is a cup of water.”
Deandre threw his arm around him. “You say the craziest shit, man.”
“Wait,” Chen’s imagination was percolating, “maybe he’s on to something.”
And he was. Jay had given them the possibility of intergalactic warfare. His incoherence
turned into an epic summer of battling unsuspecting aliens. Their posse took on the demeanor of
outlaw cowboys as they sauntered over to the strip, water guns at the ready. Jay was a quick
study. He absorbed the distrust and disregard necessary to be a top-notch vigilante. In all truth,
he was the best at pointing out the aliens. His compatriots trusted him to decipher the telltale
signs—the quirks and countenances of beings working too hard to disguise their inner alien.
Certainly, he never pointed out actual aliens. Imagine the scene that would have created.
Mostly he just looked for sweaty types with kind eyes—the kind of eyes that permit a certain
degree of exploitation. Their victims were usually thankful for the temporary relief from the
oppressive heat anyway, so they would shriek and giggle as they played out the motions of extraterrestrial death, entertaining the local youth with an added flair of Shakespearean exaggeration.
The best victims would flail and gag atop the scattered call-girl calling cards that tiled the
sidewalk.
Jay knew the types to avoid too. He learned to identify men whose anger festered in the
carriage of their shoulders and women whose beauty could slide off their real faces when wet.

6	  

Paradise Lost

	  
He knew they would fight back, and peace was undeniably indispensable to maintain this
summer-long war he was now orchestrating. He was successful too. That’s why he was so
caught off guard when he mistook a tired bachelor’s caustic wit for a sense of humor.
Jay’s released brigade seized upon this walking hangover, dousing him with a
thoroughness that saturated the button-down shirt attempting to escape from his pants. Their
target’s initial reaction was clichéd—his choreography borrowed equally from both the Matrix
and Spiderman trilogies—but he lacked the heart needed to die properly. His actions were tired
and impatient.

As if recognizing his predictability, he suddenly sagged out of character and

looked up at his attackers—his eyes falling into the direct path of Jay’s concentrated stare.
“Wait,” he said. His voice was firm, convincing enough that the troops lowered their
weapons. He occupied John Wayne’s best strut as he circled vulture-like around Jay. “Why
aren’t you shooting?”
“I…I’m…I do the recon.”
“Recon, huh? So you haven’t been shooting at all then?”
Jay shook his head.
This stranger had found his character. He suddenly held them captive, not with weapons
or physical prowess but simply with his demeanor. He finished his approach and fluidly took
possession of the squirt gun dangling submissively at Jay’s side. “Then why is your gun…” he
pointed it directly at Hannah’s forehead and pulled the trigger “…empty.”
Jay saw the plot shift in the refocused eyes of his former compatriots. Their shared
visage of betrayal made him feel so alien. His protestations were futile but he continued to offer
them as they seized his limbs and hoisted him for execution.

They almost believed his

7	  

Paradise Lost
	  

supplications. Jay flailed with the intensity of a method actor, as they marched towards the
Excalibur fountains.
They never loved Jay more than in this moment as they carried him Cleopatra-style to his
death. This gift he had given them—this best summer ever—was culminating now in that scene
repeated in all their favorite films, when the hero extended the travails of his heroics in hopes of
milking every ounce of glory from this apex of his life. Like sucking the richness of a chocolate
milkshake through a stirring straw, they slowed their strenuous journey, marching him snake-like
through the cheering and jeering lines of gamblers and revelers that shared their path. Arms aloft,
they shared looks of satiated agreement; they would have to find a way to express their gratitude
for Jay’s flourishing theatrics. Then Chen nodded, and they tossed him in.
At first they thought Jay had landed on a spigot of some sort as the fountain immediately
bubbled to life, but the sizzle and steam wafted an unidentifiable smell back upon their small
crew. The water gripped Jay’s flesh, holding him in a caustic back float, forcing him to stare
into the eyes of his assailants. He didn’t expect the fear he saw—not a fear of him, but a fear for
him—an attempt to understand why he would do this to himself. Even more, though, he wasn’t
expecting to recognize their absolution—to see no ownership over this tragedy that hissed and
seethed before them.
It was here, if anywhere, that Jay figured he would see God.

Instead, he saw

forgiveness—not of him, but for themselves. They didn’t need God anymore. He saw regret too,
but it was for some lost friend they’d never really met, their grieving for someone they didn’t
really know. The sudden accumulation of pain was too much for Jay, who lost his hold of the
form he was trying to maintain. He released his humanity and became himself, alien in that

8	  

Paradise Lost
	  

moment of weakness, floating exposed and foreign before he shriveled up and dissolved into the
spray of the fountain.


