The crosshatching numbers began when Sara Sue wasn’t paying attention in church.
She started simple: boys vs. girls, young vs. old, total number on each side of the nave.
Then she started to get more detailed counting the total pieces of her stained-glass savior. She
loved the precocious twelve-year-old Christ amazing his elders. She lingered on the baptism at
Bethany beyond the Jordan. She took off her patent-leathers and imaged the compassionate
leader washing her feet. But she could never bring herself to count the pieces of suffering Christ.
She turned from the temptation in the desert. She refused to look at the abusive walk toward
Golgotha. She couldn’t even say the name Peter. The artist had found the real betrayal in the
hands of the prized disciple—in each storyboard of stained-glass, Peter’s hands would be
deformed, mangled, cursed into a perpetual claw that pushed the weight of his decisions away.
The abuses then began piling up. The news of clergy members with whole scrapbooks of
parish boys, macabre trophies tacked with care and precision. Talk of catamites—the resurfacing
of a seedy past that the church thought it had buried with the likes of the Inquisition. Sara Sue
knew that she could now count the suffering. Each plea and pool of bloody sweat. Finally feel
the crush of the cross on Simon’s shoulders.
Still, more than a decade later, Sara Sue sometimes catches herself involuntarily cocking
her head and talking to the sky. Pleading for understanding, patience, maybe even a way out.
Eventually she’ll see it, breathe, and stop—never forgetting to first admonish the church for
brainwashing her into believing in such pathetic fallacies.

Jasper is no healer. He’s more of an excavator, a finder, a shifter of unseen things.
It started with women, and is still strongest with them. He pulled away from his first love,
but she grappled his vinyl windbreaker and yanked him back, and when their lips smashed,
bundles of black tumors leavened into his mind. He tried sex twice with a girlfriend in high
school. The first time was standing up in a bathroom beside a bike path. Both were willing, but
after half a minute the flashing blips made him stop. The final time was after boozing the night
away at a punk show. They fell into each other for five minutes, but when she flipped him over
to climb on top, Jasper noticed the blood, and then her wilting from the hemorrhaging ovarian
cysts.
He collapsed into himself, away from women especially—constantly fearing that he
would fall into one and have to tell her about a rotting uterus or breast. During his senior year of
college, he finally found someone of equal chastity. She slept at his house every night but always
feet to face. But it was during a three day blizzard that the boiler died and Jasper woke up with
her little-spooned against him. He slid out with a flick and buried his head in a pillow. He dug at
his eyes. Hummed. Bit his tongue. Stuffed his nose full of pillow case. Afraid that if he let any of
his senses come to fruition they would show him the gaunt hand of cancer grasping a hold of her
brain. But he opened and there was nothing. No hand. No black bulbs of cancer. No clogged
arteries or premonitions. Only the soft and steady beat of life. That’s when he realized the answer
wasn’t chastity, but simple touch. The forearm. A soft tuft. Chapped lips. A simple touch and he
could see everything. Or nothing.


Sara Sue was finishing a churro when she noticed a pair of juvenile delinquents.
A wake of flimsy wax paper trailed behind them as they dodged and weaved through
dense foot traffic. Unlike the majority of dine and dashers, their faces were not distorted into
gleeful caricatures, but instead were panicked—stricken with the realization that the middle-aged
street-vendor they robbed was hot on their heels. The two juked and spun through a sixty-eight
person logjam. The vendor hurdled six small dogs and three leashed toddlers. Whenever the
thieves passed a storefront window their reflections would breed and blend into a disarrayed
amalgam—a frightened hydra, each head holding a stage of fear as the street-vendor gained
traction. The two limboed underneath a sawhorse when they should have hurdled. The vendor
hurdled, and in mid-air grappled the two by their thieving collars.
But the street-vendor then noticed what Sara Sue did: the little thieving bastards were
female—heavy knots of waist-length hair tumbling out as they desperately tried to gain more
grip on the shifty construction rubble. The vendor folded, arched the top half of his torso back,
simply not able to process this bizarre turn in events. Suddenly he looked embarrassed, almost
ashamed, letting go of the female thieves as if they were hot coals. The two took this opportunity
and escaped into the thick gyres of people. His face a gnarled rotten truffle, the street-vendor
bent at the waist and rested his elbows on meaty, polyester thighs. The holiday traffic swelled the
town square, the crowd engulfing the street-vendor, filing him back to his cart, to his life of small
gratifications that meld into monstrous disappointments. Sara Sue wanted to go to him. She

wanted him to know that she watched him. She saw him glide through the muck of people with
graceful determination.
Two church bells rang with corresponding force. Children ate sugar skulls impaled on
pikes and spits. Sara Sue counted 457 black balloons huddled in a centralized pen bumping their
fontanel heads together, each balloon representing a patron saint. A group of widows walked past
her toward a graveyard. They paced one another at a comfortable shuffle, holding marigolds and
mescal. A sharp squeal began to build, the women balling up like panicked mackerel, heaving
their bodies at the back of a man. Sara Sue could only see his wardrobe: long black sleeves and
gloves, his pants spackled onto the sides of his boots, his face masked in a festive calaca—a
grinning skull terrified at the multitude of widows wanting a touch. They torn themselves to
shreds, small swarms racking up the man’s skyward arms, stretching and straining for the
bracelet of flesh between his glove and sleeve—any small ring of skin. The crowd tensed, sucked
itself shoulder to shoulder, wrapping themselves around the masked man with reverence,
shouting.
“Por favor! Por favor! Uno toque! Uno toque! (Please! Please! One touch! One touch!)”
One of the taller widows managed to grapple his wrist and pull it down to her face, to the
tuft of her head, to the bottom crescent of her left breast, crying and pleading.
“Cúrame! Cúrame! (Heal me! Heal me!)”
The masked man ducked into the swarm, staying low. Sara Sue saw his head split out
between a wall of legs, stuck behind bars. Then he was swept in, pulled by the ankles, flown into
the swarm, toward the open doors of St. Francis de Sales parish.

5

The Counter, The Finder

Jasper could already smell the guacamole and grill tops.
His calaca mask smiled back at him from the broken reflection of a cage-covered
window. The festivities were in sight, but this abandoned book-binding plant corralled his impish
spirit. The gangrenous pages stuck in the sharp diamonds of the fence. The breadth of the
building taking up an entire city block. The flaking poles of an ivy-coated forgotten playground.
He snuck into a studio sectioned off by chain-link closets, each one stuffed with corroded
wooden boxes of scabrous glass and discarded fuses. Something sour dragged itself along a
concrete tube of stairs. Jasper followed the smell, leveling his nails into the walls, squinting,
stumbling onto a massive production floor of dead magazines and obsolete textbooks. Pungent,
long-forgotten literature of Americana: housewives smiling their barbiturate gin and tonic
smiles; a caricature of a cartoon-headed Khrushchev pounding his pink fist on a pulpit.
Taking up three-quarters of the floor was a skeletal printing press stripped for scrap
metal; its guts ripped out for the copper wiring—the vulnerability, the nakedness causing Jasper
to flush, as if he walked in on someone adjusting their wig or wiping themselves. He backed into
a corner and knocked over a cart of wastebaskets. The porous netting of the iron trashcans
rattled, shattering the silence of the abandoned factory. It was unsettling, and when Jasper
grabbed the wastebaskets from hopping up and down, he heard the first shuffle. It came from the
far corner, a trapped corner between the wall and the decrepit printing press. Then a second
shuffle and a step. Jasper bent and picked up a scabbard of casing. He gripped and waited for the
violence.
6

The Counter, The Finder

“We got a sick one back here.”
Six spindly arms poked out from behind the press. The arms connected to a shallow
group of mid-pubescent teenagers, one girl and two boys, fear swimming in their eyes.
“I ain’t going to hurt you...
Jasper tossed his scrap of metal down and removed his calaca mask.
…sick how?”
The girl stuck out her arm and called him over.
“She just won’t move.”
Jasper rounded the corner and found a caramel mutt splayed out and shaking, her chest
filling with sharp bursts.
“Don’t know what’s wrong with her…only found her about two months ago.”
Jasper leaned down.
“Mind I take a look?”
The tiny matriarch nodded approval. Jasper didn’t want to tell these kids that their dog
was about to die, but he was compelled, possessed, already leaning down and putting his hand on
the dead dog’s ribs. He waited for the burst of death, but saw four faces instead. He could
practically smell the puppies with each breath of the mother.
“She’s going to be a mama.”
The matriarch shook her head at the other two and eased against the wall.
7

The Counter, The Finder

“No shit…
She popped a sweet cigar into her mouth.
…looks like I’m going to be a grandma.”
He raised a brow and bummed a smoke. The teenage matriarch struck the match, the
sweet sting of phosphorus hanging in the air.
Jasper never believed in signs and symbols. It was all flim flam, nothing but trying to
decipher, complicate something as simple as happenstance. There usually aren’t poetic semantics
behind things, or a string-pulling deity or patron. It’s all just cut and dry, black and white
coincidence. The pregnant mutt wasn’t a sign from above (or below for that matter) but simply
an opportunity for education. Jasper finally read the other side of the coin, he evolved his
renaissance spirit; his touch wasn’t meant just for pain, but prosperity as well.
The young matriarch thanked him with sweet tobacco lips on his cheek, and said she’d
name the first pup after him. Jasper knuckled the remnants of the young lips as he walked back,
honing in on The Day of the Day. Widows filed past a centralized fountain toward the graveyard.
Marigolds peeked out from behind ears. Transparent pints of homemade mescal were stuck to
sticky mouths. The mourners walked toward graveside altars, loving but shoddy rows of slapped
together wood and nail. The large crowd of a patrón, a respected public figure, impregnated the
center of the street. The patrón’s influence could be seen in the myriad of faces: latin, white,
black—all races together, a mural unified by death, by love. Following custom, the mourners
carried the patrón’s favorite things to his graveside. Long stalks of cigars glowed from the end of
mouths. Lucha libre masks spattered the crowd. A trio of violins and a single guitar played not
sappy ballads, but lively tex-mex two-step.
8

The Counter, The Finder

A hand grabbed Jasper’s bicep from behind.
“You are one…
He turned to a woman, a shrouded widow.
“Excuse me?”
“You are sanador (healer).”
He pulled back, but instead of letting go, the widow grabbed his hand and threaded her
fingers into his, her eyes widening, welling.
“I can tell! Por favor! Por favor! You can help us! Help us all!”
Jasper tried to pull away, but her grip only tightened.
“Help you with what?”
The widow shook her head and kissed their threaded hands.
“Everything…you help with everything.”

9

The Counter, The Finder

Rock of Gibraltar
St. Francis de Sales Parish is a beast of burden. The whips of its parishioners so sempiternal
and fierce that it developed a callused hide quickly, a steady and unmoving root of faith. The
hands that now lay on the pews flow with the same spilt blood of those that built the parish. The
community itself was an end of the line town from the waning days of the American Indian War.
Back then, crops of soldiers would amble in lost-eyed and decrepit, and after the initial shock,
the boys would soon realize this latest defeat was their last. There would be no glory, no
homecoming here or anywhere. Invariably, the disenchanted soldiers would pillage and destroy,
the rapacious nature of the defeated taking hold. But the self-lacerating townsfolk would always
rebuild. The migrant forbearers becoming so entrenched in a commitment of something that it
became an inescapable voluntary subjugation, a misplaced martyrdom that they would pass on to
incoming generations.
Jasper was noticing the pock-marked walls of the church when he was spread-eagled on a
couple dozen shoulders. By this point, he was docile, immobile, giving in; his organized
believers, twenty-seven volatile fundamentalists, mechanically clawing at his limbs in unison.
The crowd lowered him facedown to the stone ground. He saw the dying, flaking away kidneys
of one worshipper as she knelt with the full force of her hefty frame on his biceps. The
worshippers scraping became more frantic. They started with his skull-faced calaca, followed by
everything else, stripped him down until Jasper was naked on the century-old floor. The inflicted

10

The Counter, The Finder

widows then disrobing themselves, each one trying to chaff her illness away against Jasper: a
medical orgy of asexual bodies sliding and writhing together.
Sara Sue was never a believer. The only thing that counted for her, the only thing that she
could ever guarantee, were the numbers. The 314 pock marks on the walls of St. Francis de Sales
church. The twenty-seven very confused women dry humping an even more confused Jasper.
Monotheism, polytheism, faith, cynicism, one or many, the numbers finally didn’t matter.
No matter what she believed, Sara Sue knew that she had to find a way to stop this increasingly
violent, yet oddly obsequious crowd. Violence was out of the question with a crowd this large
and uniform. Sara Sue the unrepentant non-believer then did something she hadn’t done in more
than a decade—truly prayed, even remembering to genuflect before going into the pew. Granted,
she was rusty, but as soon as she started, it all spilled forth, almost in tongues.
“Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name…”
Maybe all God needs is a little communication, something small, a morsel.
The Day of the Dead decorations flittered from the walls. The bewildered padre sprinted
from the scarcity carrying wine and cassocks. Stone saints leapt from their perches. Jasper’s
worshippers, not to be deterred, grasped onto their bucking bronco until a hanging wrought iron
lamp wavered, snapped free and crashed into the one straddling his neck. The remaining widows
scattered. Compassion always seemed for rubes, but seeing that naked bastard dazed in the
middle of a disintegrating church, Sara Sue couldn’t help but sling his arm over her shoulder,
snag one of the cassocks the fleeing priest dropped and hobble out of St. Francis De Sales parish.
The earthquake made the holiday live up to its cryptic name: the limbs of Jasper’s minions

11

The Counter, The Finder

protruded from beneath a fallen clock-tower, while a group of people plucked tiny bodies from
the shambles of a daycare.
Sara Sue—granular and feeling the first glow of compassion, and Jasper—thrashed and
wearing a clerical cassock, held hands like play-date best friends.
When the corporeal world, the tangible, begins to buckle, people will grapple onto the
closest circulation system they can find. The closest heartbeat to convince ourselves that the
current absurdity they’re experiencing is not the real world. That the real world is the unmoving,
indefatigable rock we all need it to be. It’s these times that two transcendent forces will
unknowingly rendezvous. Not for a spiritual or everlasting fetter, but just to share this ripening
moment. A counter will always count, a finder will always find, but evolution never nibbles—it
rips out great white chunks. The inevitable will always be an unknown to us. Never defeat, only
proper placement—a puzzle piece, the twist of a screw into its tread.

12


