Three balls and two strikes the count, two men out. One man on third, the tying run. Jesus stood
outside the batter’s box and stared at his bat. His hands wrung the handle as if he were trying to
wear it away. Shouts from the stands, his teammates, the opponents’ bench had faded to the
periphery. In the center, just a boy, twelve years old, head hung slightly, talking to his bat.

“Hey, ben-Yosef! We’re waiting for you!” someone called out.

“C’mon son,” the umpire waved him up to the plate. Jesus looked up from his bat. “3-2 count, 2
down,” said the ump to Jesus and then addressing the fielders yelled, “Play ball!”

Jesus stepped back into the batter’s box. He kicked at the dirt, as if trying to get a good foothold,
yet more like a kitten looking for a warm, quiet place to take a nap. He looked into his own
dugout. His teammates clapped and cheered. In the crowd his mother gave him a raised fist to
say, “I believe in you.” His brothers and sisters stood up, trying to encourage the Nazareth
crowd to do the same.

If the pitcher would just throw another ball, he could draw a walk and this weight would pass
from him. Or perhaps he could just hit enough of the pitch to send the ball trickling between the
first and second basemen, bringing in the tying run. At least he wouldn’t lose the game that way.
But he hadn’t gotten a hit all day. Or all week, for that matter. It would have to be a walk. Or
maybe the pitch could hit him. That would be just fine.

“Don’t screw this up, you little bastard!” came from the crowd.

Mary punched Joseph in the arm, “Are you gonna let him say that to your son?” Joseph looked
at her and then slowly back to the plate.

The whole town had turned out for this, Nazareth’s best chance to beat mighty Sepphoris. This
annual showdown between Nazareth and its nearest neighbor, over 100 times its size, had never
ended well for the little burg. Nazareth was hardly a town at all and disparaged by Jews across
the countryside as the home of a large Roman garrison. Not even the Nazarenes had much
reason to believe that much good come from their own town. All that could be temporarily
forgotten--if Jesus could score the runner on third and perhaps score himself.

The Sepphorite pitcher took the ball and touched the rubber. He bent forward, low at the waist,
squinting in at his catcher, who gave him the signal. Jesus could feel the sweat roll down his


back, Nazareth’s expectations weighing on his shoulders, pressing the air from his lungs. The
sounds around subsided again until he could only hear his own pant. He took two quick, short
practice swings as if telling the pitcher, “Throw the ball right about here.”

The pitcher straightened, bringing ball and glove to his chest. As the pitcher lifted his front leg-his left, Jesus tightened his grip, brought his bat back, raised his right elbow. Rocking onto his
right leg, the pitcher then lunged forward, firing in the pitch. Jesus raised his right elbow higher,
tightened his grip more. Watching the pitch come in, Jesus lifted his front leg slightly, licked his
lips, clasped his jaw—then set his foot slowly down.

“Stee-rike Three!!!” pierced Jesus’ ears as the ball popped the catcher’s mitt. He loosened his
grip, let the bat fall to the ground, and hung his head. Staring at the ground, the world around
returned to his ears: boos, jeers, a smattering of applause. As Mary and Joseph descended the
stands, a man yelled, “Joe, you must be proud. Your boy’s a real hero.”

“Not my son,” Joseph muttered under his breath as he walked away.

After that no one in Nazareth had much time for Jesus. Men sneered at him, or knocked into him
with their shoulders. Women, worse, ignored him entirely. Jesus laid the blame on a lot of
things. He blamed Joseph who, as a mason and carpenter, helped build the local Roman
garrison, earning the ire of the neighbors. He blamed the ump for calling strike three. He
blamed his Roman nose. He did not, however, blame himself.


By the time he was finishing junior high, the relentless teasing, as children do, eventually broke
the boy. It’s hard to say which nickname he disliked more: Sepphorite, carpenter or bastard.
Following one such taunting, Jesus allegedly cursed two classmates, killing them. Out of fear of
him, the principal decided it warranted a few days of detention rather than outright expulsion.

Neither at school or at home did Jesus have any friends. Most of his family stopped speaking to
him. He quit school, hoping to begin a career. As for carpentry, he showed no aptitude. Even in
his later teachings, he would avoid the topic of drywall or cabinetry, preferring parables of sheep
or seeds. Joseph tried to teach the boy a trade, but, having died a few years back, he could not
continue Jesus’ training. No one else in town would deign take him on as an apprentice.

So Mary asked his uncle if he could take the boy on his merchant vessel for a few years, figuring
he might make a better merchant than mason. It was abroad that a miracle occurred. Jesus
finally showed real talent—a penchant for religious study and renascence.

First he sailed west with his uncle to the Tin Islands. Then he sailed east, to the land beyond
even Alexander’s reach. He showed little proclivity for commerce. However the eastern faiths
captured his attention. Over the course of several years he read every sutra and Veda he could.
Sages taught him the non-violent principles of the Jains and the material detachment of the
Buddha. In Persia he learned of the cosmic battle between Ahura Mazda and Ahriman. He was
born with an ability to comprehend and synthesize the religion of the Hindus.
Uncharacteristically of a Hebrew boy, he began to see himself in streams, trees or fire. Fire he
favored. In fire he was the element of change, the creator of the ashen soil of rebirth.


With the breath of gods at his back, he decided to leave his uncle and return to Palestine. Instead
of returning to Galilee, he sought out a new life in the Judean capital, Jerusalem. In Jerusalem
no one knew the failure he had been. “Here, I can find a new life.”

He found a people unsure of whether they should embrace the world or retreat from it. The
Romans held sway in the streets, even though there was a nominal Jewish monarchy in place.
Many a Jew walked by a Roman soldier, head down, cursing under his hood. Certainly more
cosmopolitan than even Sepphoris, Jerusalem showed elements of Roman, Greek, Jewish and
even a little Egyptian culture. Phoenicians from Tyre and Sidon, masters of science and
mathematics, designed much of the grand architecture. Traders from all directions traveled
through on their way to parts east and west.

With hardly a denarius in his purse, Jesus searched for meaning in the capital. As a Galilean, the
Jerusalemites viewed him as an alien, barely a Jew at all. Moving from house to house of
worship, he searched for a spiritual guide and true freedom—freedom from want, the Romans,
his own past. He sought teachers and preachers, wise men and blind women. He slept in parks
and alleyways, eating from dumpsters. He wanted a people to call his own. Everywhere he
looked, the people of Jerusalem appeared in lust with power and money.

Jesus walked past the shops, filled each day with goods and shoppers. Every day for week he
walked through the streets to see almost every shop filled each day with patrons. In the
windows, filled with images of jewels and young people wearing nothing but their underwear, it


occurred to him covetousness was no longer a sin but a necessity. For how could these shops
thrive if not filled with shoppers? Where would the shoppers go?

To the synagogues? Jesus had walked by a few of these as well. Empty for most of the week, on
the Sabbath the temples bustled with a market intensity. Men showed in their finest suits and
power ties, while women spent hours making themselves look as if they were going to a picnic.
In the front of the temple a man would stand, warning the worshipers of falling prey to the
wolves of this world, the evils of money and commerce, of ignoring your fellow man. Then
there would be the clink of coins and the rustle of paper before the people would run off to the
rest of their week.

Walking in a park one day, a young man rode past him on a bicycle. “Man, why do these people
worship with their lips but not with their lives?”

“What?” Jesus asked, surprised that the young man should be speaking to him. “What did you
say?”

Circling back, the stranger spoke to him as if they were resuming an old conversation. “What do
these people think they gain by tithing to God but giving the rest to Molech? by praying to the
god of mercy for Mammon? Our people, freed from the bonds of slavery and delivered into this
land have chosen to live in service to the Evil One.”

Sepphoris

7

The young man invited Jesus to sit in the park and talk with him. For the next seven hours, Jesus
and the young man, named Pur, discussed scripture and the state of the Jews in a rambling,
disjointed fashion that spoke directly to each man’s heart. “Yeah, Pur, man, as in ‘humble,’ ya
know?” He had an easygoing disposition and an unsophisticated manner, yet his words at times
betrayed a deep knowledge, if not understanding, of theological concepts. At the end of the day,
as the sun hid amongst the trees and then disappeared over the horizon, Pur invited Jesus back to
his house for supper.

He lived with several others, who called themselves Essenes, in a vacant, decrepit house on the
outskirts of Jerusalem. At first it seemed their evenings were always spent on the most central
points of life in faith. No one back in Nazareth, even the town leaders, spoke with such depth
and passion about God. The Essenes did not appear as obsessed with money as the city around
them. They lived simply, communally.

They also held the scriptures in the highest regard. For instance, when a question of military
conscription arose, they consulted the scriptures for their answer, instead of using the scriptures
to justify their preconceived notions.

After time, though, this was decreasingly the case. The profound turned to the paltry. The
Essenes sat around plotting a war against the Romans though they had no resources to fight.
They sat around arguing over whether government picture IDs constituted idolatry. They
debated the merits of tithing part of their “grocery runs” to a local food bank (they decided
against the proposition). Regardless, they bowed to the law. On stolen bicycles they rode about

Sepphoris

8

the police-patrolled streets and begged for change on street corners from tourists and shoppers.
They lived free of the government and earthly authorities, so long as the authorities ignored them
and the people’s generosity held.

Each night they came back for dinner and shared with others what food they had “found”. Jesus
knew for a fact that it was often stolen, having witnessed a grocery run first-hand. Not that he
ever stole. He was but an accomplice to “God’s bountiful grace”. The leader, a man so highly
regarded by the others, treated them with the contempt they perhaps deserved, seeing their blind
allegiance to him. But his hypocrisy infected the group. Even Pur’s heart hardened in the few
months Jesus knew him.

The Essenes really had no time for God, for all the time they spent arguing over him. Their
morality was their own. Their self-imposed poverty led them to crime. And so Jesus left them.
His family would have to come from elsewhere in Jerusalem.

Of the upper crust of Yahweh’s people were the Sadducees, and Jesus was never going to be in
their favor. No one but a priest (or an aristocrat) could sit in their rarified air. The Sadducees
held that the only law that mattered could be found in the Book, and, of course, that which
pleased their Roman overlords. The whims of their overlords changed from time to time, as did
the teachings of the Book. From their perch on the Temple mount, the Sadducees owned the
exclusive rights to the written law and its interpretation. They had the money to make the
handwritten copies of the Law and the education to read them. The common folk had no way to
dispute their interpretations.

Sepphoris

9

The Sadducees also held sway over the comings and goings of the Temple. What came were
pilgrims from all about Israel. Those same pilgrims departed, unburdened of their gold and
firstborn unblemished of their flocks. Some of this gain went to the Romans. By its legislative
graces the Sadducees maintained their seats high above the vulgar stock.

The Pharisees, jealous of the Sadducees’ power yet impotent to possess it, dressed in robes of
self-righteousness. The Sadducees won influence by birth and bribe. What were the Pharisees to
do, since they invariably came from less fortunate situations than the Sadducees? They tried to
sell the common folk on the idea that they, not the up-nosed Sadducees, knew God’s will. It was
not, so they claimed, only the written law that God meant for the Jews to follow. For them
tradition and oral law filled in the gaps left in the written. Who held the patent on the whole of
the oral law? Why, the Pharisees, of course.

And yet, when you studied the Pharisees closely, as Jesus most certainly did, you might find that
where one’s heart is, there also will one find one’s hands. The Pharisee’s hands slipped into the
pockets of the average Jew. Then they took their ill-gotten gain and reinvested it. Eventually
they owned all of the media outlets: television, radio and Internet. Over cables and airwaves
they preached their message. Soon they had more influence than the Sadducees, who spent their
days aloof, separate from the people.

You can learn a lot about people by what they don’t say. Or, perhaps, by what they allow others
to say in their stead. Jesus watched Pharisaic programming from TVs in shop windows, replete

Sepphoris 10

with prayers answered, cripples healed, and prophecies rendered. They painted the proper
picture of caring, loving souls just trying to reach out for God’s people, nursing them through
this painful rehearsal for the afterlife. So black and white their depictions of the world—follow
our way and prosper. All else was of the Devil. Jesus heard their sermons, their prophecies of
doom for those following the Sadducean teachings. And then they would run a series of
commercials.

He caught the general tenor of their commercial breaks. “In uncertain times, invest in gold!”
“Hypernius root! to cure all your aches and pains.” “Come November, a vote for Cohen is a vote
for God.” What is it you people say? You can catch more flies with honey than you can with
vinegar. No one pays for the truth. They pay to escape it. But they always pay.

The Sadducees held the high holy ground, but the Pharisees, with their TV stations and discount
shopping chains, controlled both message and messenger. You couldn’t walk into a brothel and
not feel their presence.

And yet these were not the mass of people, the people on the street, those from whom the
Pharisees stole. Most of them lived subsistence lifestyles and therefore could not afford the time
for education or the money for scrolls. In prayer, not priests, they had their conduit to the Most
High. Those people prayed hourly to God. They didn’t need Essenes, Sadducees or Pharisees to
deliver them from evil. They asked the Lord directly to deliver them cheaper booze, lower
property taxes or a late-inning home run. For what good is it to be righteous if there are no
goodies in return?

Sepphoris 11

This city was not Jesus’ home and it was no home for God’s people, who invested increasingly
in it. He was at home nowhere in his own country. He might be in this country, but not of it.
That which he could easily intuit about God the Father everyone here struggled to understand.
By day he poured over the holy books in the city library, learning something new from the texts
each time he read them. He walked the streets of Jerusalem, listening to every street preacher
and sitting with every congregation he could, shuffling their philosophies with his favorite bits
from the East. At night he returned to the hollows of the park, to let his day’s thoughts coalesce
in dreams.

For ten years he searched for a family, for God’s family. When he had opened every door and
listened to every word in Jerusalem, he set out for the countryside. Perhaps the simpler
inhabitants there would accept him.

Though he entered each town a stranger, it would not take him long to find someone with whom
he could relate on some level. And then another, and another. For on his journey to the East and
back again, he had gained some knowledge on a great many topics by speaking with a diverse
array of people. He spoke with fishers and farmers, shepherds and miners, merchants and
soldiers.

He developed an affinity for parables, a way to speak to each person he met as to their own
experience and knowledge. In parables they could see for themselves that they had known the

Sepphoris 12

truth of the Lord all along. There was the parable of the lost sheep, the parable of the leaven and
the rich man and Lazarus. He loved the one about the Prodigal Son. Still, no drywall.

Yet after a few years along the dusty roads, he came across no one bringing the people together.
No teachers, no leaders preached anything but every man for himself, it seemed to Jesus. It was
during his travels in the Judean countryside that he heard about John the Baptist, teaching and
baptizing in the Jordan. Word of John spread like wild fire. Was he the one?

Jesus decided to hear what the Baptist was preaching. As he approached he saw the Baptist
standing in the Jordan, preaching a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins. He wore a
garment of camel hair and a leather girdle around his waist. He was a loner, for sure, but this
teacher was pure and holy in Jesus’ eyes.

Jesus approached the Baptist and began to speak. Before he could, the Baptist put two fingers to
Jesus’ lips. “My son, you need not confess your sins to me, for I am not your judge. You must
confess them to yourself.” Immediately he took Jesus behind his head with one hand and held
his nose with the other. He submerged Jesus for what seemed an awfully long time. Jesus felt
the Jordan wash over him, his heart racing, pulsing in his ears. As he was raised out of the river,
Jesus gasped for air and opened his eyes, air shocking his lungs full as car airbags. The sun
shone directly in his eyes, bright as the visage of God himself.

“Your god is pleased with you, my son. Go and be perfect henceforth,” the Baptist said, pointing
Jesus to the shore. Jesus stood at the shore, new and fresh but unsure of his cardinal directions.

Sepphoris 13

He stumbled about a bit, taking in the light, the color, the sound of a world freed of sin. Nothing
like this could be found in the din of Jerusalem.

He stood at the bank, head swimming, watching the bathers praying and chanting in the Jordan.
Jesus admired their simplicity but they lacked…community. Jesus felt clean but more alone than
ever. He felt as if he needed to get his head together. In this orientation he set off desertward for
a bout of heavy thinking.

After a while of walking, he felt sufficiently removed from the world so he sat down and
addressed the faceless sky. Recalling the story of the Buddha under the Bo tree, “Either you tell
me, Lord, what I am to do or the buzzards and scorpions carry me away by bits!” And so he sat.
And sat some more.

One of the great truths of the desert is that at some stretched point of one’s wits, things will be
heard and seen. When one’s mind is on Scripture, Buddha and idle stomach acid, the Powers
that May or May Not Be eventually find you interesting. And after a period of days they came to
play with Jesus. As did his personal adversary.

A particular voice rang in his ears. This voice was not his own, not the voice of the Almighty.
This was the voice of the Evil One. The Evil One pushed relentlessly for hours, tempting Jesus
to ask God for the power to save himself from hunger and want. Presumably Jesus could save
the world from these ills as well, but a man starving, alone in the desert, might be expected to be
preoccupied with his own survival. So on this weakness the adversary pressed his advantage.

Sepphoris 14

With the Evil One on his side, Jesus could rule the world. He might even be able to remake it in
his own image. He could feed the hungry and raise the poor. But Jesus shook off the devil’s
attempts to snare him. It was not power he truly wanted. Power would not make him happy, not
make him feel whole. He wanted his people to be a family, with God as its father. And he began
to think that he, the hated and ignored one, might be the person who could make it happen.

He would not listen to the voice inside that would lead him astray, down a path he wished not to
travel. He had fought off the curves and sliders of the adversary. And when that devil came
with his last-ditch hard-and-high one, Jesus drove it over the fence.

Many more voices ride a lonesome wind. How does one decide to which to listen? Jesus
decided to wait for silence. When silence came, at the end of his 39th night, he blinked into the
sun. The rains that had watered him during his sabbatical were nowhere to be seen. The dry
heat cooked him like an oven. The desert quiet surrounded him like the immediate aftershock of
a bomb blast, enveloping his ears in a muffled wave. Thus far he had survived, worse though for
the wear. His faith, however, his armor against temptation, had swollen. This was his sign that
he was ready.

Standing up for the first time in days, Jesus looked down at the place he sat. Leaning against the
rock he’d used for shelter, knees a bit shaky, he looked back where he’d lain and imagined he
saw a huddled mass, a boy he’d left behind with the voices. From now on he’d be the voice to
which others bent. He was a man, now, of action.

Sepphoris 15

So he stumbled away from that place bolstered by ambition. If he could hold the devil at bay, he
must, he figured, possess the power to create his own family, his own people who kept the Lord
foremost in their minds.

When he’d gathered his strength, he began to walk through Galilee, to spread his teaching: the
lessons of the desert. He began to attract a team, selecting his inner circle, calling them by twos.
First he found the fishing brothers, Peter and Andrew. They were astounded by his knowledge
of fishing, though they only knew him as an itinerant preacher.

“Cast your nets over there.”

“But Rabbi, we’ve been out all day, and in this very place twice!”

“Cast your nets. You will see.”

They, of course, assumed he was unfamiliar with either sailing or fishing and so they were
amazed. The brothers hauled in enough fish to keep their father fed for a year and still have
some left over. So they left to follow the great teacher.

Then he called those Sons of Thunder, James and John. They were the muscle every traveling
troupe needs. Soon followed Philip and Nathanael, a couple of heady boys. And three more
couples followed until there were twelve by his side. He taught them the messages of his father,

Sepphoris 16

their father--their real father. Who needed father, mother, brother, or cousin when they had the
Lord?

They went through the countryside, preaching and gaining followers. They healed the sick and
gave comfort to the poor. At times it seemed they had whole communities at their heels listening
to his words. He was far from the only hated and ignored one in Palestine. More and more of
them followed him. The family of followers sang his praises and told tales of his deeds. He was
Moses. No, he was Elisha. Or even…the Messiah.

“Is this the one who changed the water into wine?” someone asked, referring to one of his
famous works.

“Did you hear that he fed thousands with a mere five loaves and two fishes?”

“I heard four thousand,” said one.

“I heard five!” said another.

“He raised a girl from the dead!”

Whence came such miracles? Jesus couldn’t say. Some were mere rumors, imagined to have
been seen. Some were not. Jesus was unsure whether his power came from his faith in God or
God’s faith in him. The people, however, put their faith in Jesus. In Jesus the people had their

Sepphoris 17

champion. A people waiting since the fall of Goliath had their David, the least of these, had their
savior. The people gathered together, an army of such size so as to rival any Roman cohort. In
Jesus they had their general. From town to town he would perform miracles and hold the ear of
the people there. And they would follow him.

But this was Nazareth. Standing naked before his former fellows, he was here to tell them that
he’d arrived, the deliverer for whom they’d been waiting. He stood before them for an hour,
telling them about his new kingdom that included the poor and disadvantaged.

“No longer will the Sepphorites belittle you or the Jerusalemites ignore you. No! The Lord God
loves you not for the works you perform, but only because you love him. He has never stopped
loving you, though you may wander away from his side. We are all his children, the Romans,
the Sadducees and Pharisees, as well. But he will bring the greatest of them low and raise the
least to his side. We are all brothers and sisters in the Lord. And he has sent me to tell you that
we may all have eternal life with him. And it won’t be sold to the highest bidder or stolen by the
mightiest army.”

But as he looked out over the entire village he’d once known, the name of every villager known
to each of the others, he did not see the acceptance he’d gained across the countryside. Even his
own family sat in the audience, pleading with him to stop speaking and come home with them.
The crowd took turns jeering and booing him.

Sepphoris 18

“Isn’t this the little bastard who killed those two sweet boys?”

“Yeah, that’s Mary’s boy. See her over there with her and Joseph’s kids? It must be him. And
they seem to think he’s lost his mind.”

“Lost ‘is balls is what he lost. Lil coward couldn’t find none o’ his own kind here so he up and
run off to the city.”

“Is that where he got such knowledge? How does he do such works as they say?”

Finally one of the men in the crowd stood and bellowed over the others, “Hey, boy! Show us
somethin’. Do one of them ‘great works’ these folks talkin’ ‘bout. Hope it’s better ‘n them
tables yer daddy made.”

He attempted many great deeds, but was unable to perform them. Perhaps it was for the disbelief
of the people. Couldn’t they see that they were preventing miracles from being performed in
their midst? He came to them transformed in glory and power, a man of the one true gospel. He
was a son of the town. Why didn’t they recognize him? He came to teach them about love.
Why wouldn’t they listen?

In the heat and haze of the day, through the din of their questions, protests and catcalls, he
realized why they could not see him for what he was. All they saw was the same child of

Sepphoris 19

questionable parentage, the one that let them down so long ago. They saw a little boy, bat at his
feet, head hung low. All they could hear was “Stee-rike Three!”


