Perhaps  it  was  a  moment  of  inattention.  Or  perhaps  the  cause  had  more  
significance:  the  growing  distance  between  the  men  and  the  land,  not  really  
knowing  it  in  the  same  way  anymore,  not  living  off  it  as  their  fathers  and  
grandfathers  had  before  them.  It  is  often  hard  to  put  a  reason  to  an  event  such  as  
this  one.  Perhaps  a  cloud  of  misfortune  had  settled  on  the  place.  A  bad  bargain  
had  been  struck.  Or  perhaps  it  was  simply  an  accident.    
  
The  two  brothers  entered  the  forest  just  past  the  chapel  on  the  lower  
edge  of  the  village.  A  road  begins  there  and  penetrates  quite  deeply  into  the  
medieval  forest,  wending  its  way  beneath  the  canopy  of  great  trees.  The  younger  
brother—a  small,  compact,  and,  by  appearance,  cheerful  fellow—drove  an  old  
German  sedan  along  the  forest  road.  His  name  was  Marko.  The  elder  brother,  
Adam,  taller  and  more  angular,  sat  hunched  miserably  in  the  passenger  seat.  He  
had  wanted  to  drive  in  a  more  suitable  vehicle  but  Marko  had  insisted  on  taking  
his.  When  the  road  forked  now  and  again,  the  elder  brother  held  up  a  finger  to  
show  the  way.  Other  than  the  low  hum  of  the  car’s  engine,  the  two  men  travelled  
in  silence.  
  
An  unwritten  form  of  primogeniture  prevails  in  this  part  of  the  world.  
Rural  estates—if  you  can  use  such  a  grand  expression  in  villages  as  humble  as  
these—are  passed  down  intact  to  the  eldest  son.  In  order  to  keep  everything  
legal,  younger  siblings  are  pressed  to  voluntarily  sign  away  their  rights.  Not  
surprisingly,  this  often  generates  ill  feelings.  The  smaller  the  estate,  the  more  
paltry  and  pitiful  it  is,  the  more  passionately  the  unwritten  rule  is  enforced.  Thus  
the  meanest  of  pigsties  are  kept  together  while  families  fall  asunder  and  brothers  
turn  one  against  the  other.    
  
In  this  particular  family,  the  unmarried  Adam  had  remained  with  his  still  
living,  though  much  diminished,  father,  Herman,  and  carried  on  the  family  
business  such  as  it  was,  a  bit  of  small  farming  and  forestry.    Like  most  men  in  
similar  situations,  he  was  compelled  to  hold  down  a  day  job  in  order  to  make  
ends  meet.  Marko  had  left  the  village,  married,  and  gone  to  work  in  a  small  
import-­‐export  company.  Not  long  after  his  departure,  Marko  signed  away  his  
rights  to  the  house  and  the  outlying  buildings,  and  most  of  his  father’s  modest  
forest  holdings  in  order  to  prevent  the  dispersal  of  the  family  assets.  He  had  
done  this  at  the  time  of  his  mother’s  death,  as  the  house  had  originally  been  her  
family’s,  and  it  seemed  a  good  time  to  set  things  in  order.  At  the  time,  Marko  was  
still  young  and  full  of  hope,  and  it  didn’t  seem  like  such  a  great  loss  to  him.  
Indeed  he  had  been  glad  to  put  the  little  village  behind  him,  the  long  hours  of  
work,  the  bitter  cold  early  mornings  milking  cows  in  the  barn,  the  memories  of  
poverty  and  death,  war  and  emigration  that  darkened  every  façade.  He  would  be  
a  modern  man.  The  gleaming  city  would  be  his,  not  the  mud  and  dirt  of  the  farm.    
  
Marko  did,  as  it  happened,  retain  a  small  share  in  a  bit  of  forestland  that  
his  father  had  ceded  him  by  way  of  consolation,  but  he  had  not  thought  about  the  
land  for  years.  Now,  however,  that  good  times  had  failed  to  materialize,  or  rather  
they  had  come  but  failed  to  enrich  him,  and  in  any  case  were  now  long  gone  for  
nearly  everyone,  Marko  remembered  it.  He  needed  to  pay  a  bill  in  connection  
  


with  his  grown  daughter’s  education  and  he  asked  his  brother  if  they  might  cut  a  
bit  of  high  quality  wood  from  the  patch  of  forest  that  was  his  and  put  it  up  for  
sale  to  raise  some  cash.  It  was  on  this  errand  that  the  two  brothers  set  out  on  an  
early  morning  in  late  November.  
  
On  the  day  of  the  accident,  the  sky  unfurled  its  cruel  white  banner,  the  sun  
surrendering  before  it  had  properly  begun  to  fight.  Though  very  cold,  no  snow  
had  yet  fallen.  In  recent  winters,  snow,  once  so  abundant,  had  seemed  strangely  
reluctant.  The  weather,  the  villagers  warned,  was  changing  and  not  for  the  
better.  Villagers  rarely  said  any  change  was  for  the  better,  though,  these  days,  
few  could  argue  otherwise.  But  certainly  the  last  thing  either  brother  expected  
on  the  cold  sunless  morning  was  beauty.  And  yet,  at  one  moment,  Marko  drove  
over  a  slight  rise  and,  surveying  the  dip  and  swell  of  the  forest  before  him,  felt  
compelled  to  stop  the  car.  
  
“Look,”  he  said.    
  
That  was  the  first  word  that  passed  between  the  two  men  since  they  had  
entered  the  forest.  The  elder  brother  did  not  answer  but  his  gaze  must  have  
taken  in  the  scene.  For,  rather  than  its  usually  variegated  palette,  the  forest  
offered  up  only  two  colors:  gold  and  white,  gold  and  white.  Diamond  hoarfrost  
coated  every  trunk  and  branch  in  the  glorious  upward-­‐reaching  tangle.  Not  the  
tiniest  glint  of  warm  wood  shone  through.  Most  of  the  leaves  had  already  fallen  
from  the  deciduous  trees  and,  as  snow  had  not,  golden  leaves  covered  the  forest  
floor  like  a  dense  gilt  blanket  tossed  over  the  bed  of  a  princess.  There  was  the  
odd  ash  or  silver  maple  that  jealously  refused  to  release  her  leaves,  would  not  
allow  the  tiny  twigs  to  fray  and  snap,  the  pretty  discs  to  float  free,  and  so  golden  
blasts  of  foliage  exploded  here  and  there  in  the  treetops,  like  spectacular  
fireworks  amidst  the  cold  diamond  white  of  the  branches.    
  
“It’s  like  a  fairytale,”  said  Marko,  and,  at  that  moment,  he  felt  loath  to  cut  
down  even  a  single  tree  in  such  a  magical  place.  
  
“Let’s  go,”  his  brother  spoke  gruffly.  “It’s  just  around  the  next  bend.”  
  
And  so  Marko  reluctantly  restarted  the  engine  and  the  two  men  travelled  
on  in  silence,  the  chainsaw  resting  between  them  on  the  backseat  of  the  car.  
  
  
Though  Adam  owned  and  worked  the  farm,  it  was  usually  Marko  who  was  
assigned  to  communicate  unpleasant  news  to  the  old  man.  The  younger  brother  
had  a  softer,  more  jovial  manner  about  him,  while  the  elder  was  taciturn  and  
hard.  Both  feared  that  their  father  was  growing  unreasonable,  even  slightly  
demented,  in  his  old  age.  Only  a  few  months  before,  Adam  had  asked  Marko  to  
inform  his  father  of  the  decision  to  sell  off  the  large  livestock  because  it  didn’t  
pay  anymore  to  keep  a  barn  full  of  cows.  It  was  too  much  work  and  the  dairies  
were  buying  their  milk  from  larger,  more  cost-­‐effective  farms.  The  two  men,  
father  and  younger  son,  discussed  the  decision  in  the  barn  itself.    
  
“There’s  no  market  for  it  anymore,  father,”  Marko  explained.    
  
“No  market?”  the  old  man  repeated  quietly.  
  
Marko  shook  his  head  no.  The  animals  shifted  in  their  stalls.  A  peculiar  
sense  of  wrongdoing  filled  the  barn  and,  for  some  reason,  Marko  felt  ashamed,  
felt  as  if  he  were  not  communicating  a  practical  financial  decision  but  was  
engaged  in  an  act  of  treachery.  
  
  
“No  market  you  say?”  His  father’s  voice  was  slightly  louder  now.    

  


    
“It’s  a  lot  of  work,  father.  You  make  no  money  from  it  and  you  save  none.  
It’s  a  net  loss.”    
  
The  old  man  took  a  step  backward  into  the  dim  depths  of  the  barn.  His  
gaze  remained  fixed  incredulously  on  his  younger  son  who  stood  framed  in  the  
bright  doorway.    
  
“They  still  give  milk,  don’t  they?”    
  
An  angry  sarcasm  that  Marko  couldn’t  remember  hearing  before  had  
entered  his  father’s  voice.  A  chain  rattled  softly  in  the  stalls.  The  eyes  of  one  of  
the  beasts  rolled  back  in  her  head,  the  marble  whites  traversed  by  a  skein  of  
terrified  blue.  
  
“Not  enough,”  said  Marko  with  a  wry  laugh.  “It’s  never  enough  in  this  day  
and  age.”  
  
His  father  ignored  the  response,  the  effort  to  make  light  of  the  moment.    
  
“And  these  hands?”    
  
The  old  man  held  them  up.  They  were  large  and  calloused  and  cracked  
and  dry.  They  held  a  lifetime  of  work  in  them.  A  lifetime  of  loading  and  lifting  and  
hammering  and  heaving,  shoveling  and  milking  and  digging.        
  
“Is  there  a  market  for  these  hands?”  
  
Marko  stepped  forward  toward  his  father.  God  knows  he  sympathized.  
His  hands  were  far  less  calloused  than  the  old  man’s  but  there  wasn’t  much  of  a  
market  for  them  either.  He  wished  he  could  embrace  his  father,  comfort  him  in  
some  way.  But  the  old  man  stood  bareheaded  and  unapproachable  at  the  center  
of  the  chill  space,  legs  open,  chest  wide,  like  some  great  proletarian  statue  with  
the  walls  he  had  built  all  around  him,  the  smell  of  hay  and  urine  in  the  air.  
Instead  of  embracing  his  father,  Marko  turned  on  his  heel  and  walked  out  into  
the  cold  sunlight,  into  the  clean  air.  It  was  just  a  formality  anyway.  The  decision  
had  already  been  made.  Things  would  take  their  course.  Soon  enough  the  cows  
would  be  sold  off  or  slaughtered  for  meat  and  then  presumably  the  barn  itself  
would  fall  into  disrepair.  It  wouldn’t  take  long  for  it  to  be  reclaimed  by  the  forest,  
for  ivy  to  climb  up  the  interior  walls,  a  crack  to  open  in  the  rooftop,  the  rain  to  
fall  through.  
  
If  this  was  rape,  it  was  a  splendid  rape.  If  this  was  plunder,  it  was  noble  plunder.  
The  two  brothers  passed  the  saw  between  them  from  hand  to  hand.  They  
worked  in  a  harmony  they  had  not  known  since  they  were  boys.    Adam  had  come  
during  the  previous  week  and  had  marked  with  white  paint  the  most  suitable  
trees  to  harvest,  both  in  terms  of  the  value  of  the  timber  and  of  the  impact  on  the  
tract  of  forest  itself.  They  would  do  as  much  as  they  could  on  this  first  day  and  
then  come  back  with  chains  and  a  tractor  to  pull  and  stack  the  wood,  cover  it,  
and  let  it  dry  for  some  months  before  they  transported  it  to  the  outskirts  of  the  
city  for  sale.    
  
At  first,  when  he  had  spotted  them,  Marko  had  resented  those  white  
marks.  Could  he  not  be  his  own  master  for  once?  Could  he  not  choose  which  
trees  to  fell?  But  then  as  they  worked,  he  saw  the  sense  of  his  brother’s  decisions,  
even  came  to  admire  the  care  with  which  he  had  planned  the  desecration.    As  
they  worked  methodically  around  the  trunk  of  each  marked  tree,  they  had  to  
gauge  the  angle  of  the  cut,  gauge  the  angle  of  the  impending  fall.  The  hearty  wail  
of  the  power  saw  filled  the  air  and  dissipated  the  white  haze  that  had  descended  
on  the  day.  Though  it  remained  cold,  the  heat  of  the  saw  and  the  men’s  bodies  

  

3  

unlocked  the  armor  of  frost  locked  around  each  trunk.  Wood  chips  flew.  
Occasionally  the  men  struck  a  vein  of  sap  and  it  oozed  warmly  from  the  still  
living  tree.  The  two  brothers  spoke  little,  in  terse  phrases,  between  the  blasts  of  
the  saw:    
  
“Angle  it  down  more.”  
  
“That  way.”  
  
“Good.”  
  
“It  should  fall  in  that  direction.”  
  
“I’ll  do  it.”  
  
“Other  side  now.”  
  
“Well  done.”  
  
“Step  away.”  
  
“Back!”  
  
“Now!”  
  
The  forest  let  out  a  great  sigh  each  time  she  yielded  her  treasure  to  the  
two  men.  Little  flocks  of  sparrow  and  titmice  took  to  the  sky  in  sudden  panicked  
flight,  fluttering  away  from  their  sinking  ship.  The  falling  tree  lunged  with  a  
breathless  whoosh,  landing  on  the  forest  floor  with  a  slight  bounce  just  as  the  
weight  of  a  ready  woman  might  fall  onto  a  mattress.  And  afterwards,  the  two  
men  stood  above  her,  still  breathing  heavily,  regarding  her  girth,  her  trembling  
limbs.  Satisfied  in  some  primordial  way.  At  ease  with  themselves  and  the  world  
around  them.  
  
They  worked  straight  through  the  day,  moving  from  one  marked  tree  to  
the  next.  They  took  few  breaks.  During  the  first  one,  they  ate  sandwiches  and  
sipped  tea  from  a  shared  thermos.  During  the  second,  they  allowed  themselves  a  
mouthful  of  whiskey  from  a  flask  as  they  had  drunk  all  the  tea  and  the  whiskey  
would  warm  them.  But  they  were  cautious.  They  knew  the  danger  of  the  work,  
respected  the  weight  of  the  trees,  the  power  of  the  forest.    
  
By  late  afternoon,  they  could  sense  the  sun  waning  in  the  west.  The  haze  
had  cleared  almost  entirely  and  the  faint  orange  glow  of  the  setting  sun  filtered  
through  the  trees,  casting  windmill  shadows.  The  days  were  short  and  the  light  
wouldn’t  last  for  long.  Marko  was  the  last  man  to  use  the  saw  and  he  set  it  down  
on  the  ground  between  them.  Later,  he  would  wonder  if  he  had  done  something  
wrong,  if  that  bit  of  whiskey  had  affected  his  judgment,  or  perhaps  he  was  made  
careless  by  the  unusual  sense  of  satisfaction  and  fatigue  he  felt  after  the  long  day  
of  shared  labor.  He  wondered  if  he  hadn’t  turned  the  machine  off  entirely  or  set  
the  safety  clip  in  place,  because  the  moment  he  put  the  saw  down,  it  sprang  back  
to  life.  It  jumped  up  from  the  forest  floor,  like  a  living  creature,  a  jackal  or  a  small  
feral  wolf,  and  it  set  upon  his  brother,  biting  at  the  front  of  his  legs,  his  knees,  
snapping  its  whirring  jaws  at  his  thighs.  Adam  cried  out  in  surprise  and  tried  to  
swat  the  crazed  thing  away  with  his  bare  palms.  Marko  laughed  out  loud,  
something  he  would  come  to  regret  for  the  rest  of  his  days,  but  that  was  his  first  
reaction.  Because  the  scene  struck  him  as  comical  somehow,  as  payback  for  all  
the  past  slights  that  had  taken  place  between  the  brothers.  It  looked  harmless  at  
first,  as  if  a  neighborhood  dog  were  jumping  up  to  sniff  wetly  at  his  brother’s  
crotch,  and  his  brother  doing  an  embarrassed  little  jig  to  get  away.    
  
But  then  Adam  fell  to  the  ground.  The  saw  as  well,  buzzing  uselessly  
among  the  leaves,  not  a  living  creature  anymore  but  a  dumb  malfunctioning  tool.  
Marko  bent  down  to  turn  off  the  power.  Then  he  turned  and  looked  at  the  mess  

  

4  

of  torn  material  of  his  brother’s  pant  legs,  such  a  jigsaw  puzzle  of  jagged  tears  
and  rips  that  their  mother  would  never  be  able  patch  them.  They  would  have  to  
be  torn  up  and  used  for  rags.  He  heard  his  older  brother  whimpering  and  
remembered  with  a  sudden  pang  that  their  mother  was  dead.    
  
“Wait,”  Marko  whispered  into  the  air.  He  looked  up  toward  the  sky,  and  
then  at  the  afternoon  shadows  lying  around  him  on  the  ground.  All  the  fallen  
trees.  “Stop,”  he  said  quietly.  
  
And  finally,  finally,  after  what  seemed  like  an  eternity  in  the  gold  and  
white  forest,  Marko  took  action  and  hoisted  Adam  up,  holding  him  under  his  
armpits.  The  two  men  moved  in  a  peculiar  combination  of  dragging  and  
hobbling,  walking  and  falling,  to  the  passenger  side  of  the  old  German  sedan.  
They  made  a  strange  couple,  dancing  there  in  the  winter’s  dying  light.  Marko  
helped  his  brother  into  the  back  seat.  He  was  moaning  faintly  now,  a  hand  flung  
over  his  eyes,  trembling  from  shock  and  loss  of  blood,  almost  unconscious.  
Marko  gingerly  arranged  his  brother’s  injured  legs  across  the  seat  like  the  legs  of  
a  limp  puppet.    He  folded  his  coat  and  placed  it  under  his  brother’s  head.  Then  he  
went  and  picked  up  the  saw  and  tossed  it  into  the  passenger  seat.  Before  he  got  
into  the  car  himself,  he  dug  his  hand  into  his  pocket  for  his  cell  phone  and  placed  
a  call  to  the  stationary  phone  in  his  father’s  house.  
  
“What  is  it?”  The  old  man  answered.  His  voice  sounded  thick,  as  if  he  
hadn’t  spoken  for  a  long  time  or  had  been  woken  from  a  deep  sleep.    
  
“There’s  been  an  accident,”  Marko  spoke  breathlessly.  “It’s  Adam.  His  legs.  
The  saw.  I’m  not  quite  sure  how  it  happened.”  
  
“Where  are  you?”    
  
“I’m  not  sure  exactly.  I’m  not  sure  how  to  get  back.  I  wasn’t  paying  
attention.”  
  
And  Marko  remembered  the  moment  when  he  stopped  the  car  at  the  start  
of  the  day,  the  forest  glimmering  like  the  interior  of  an  imperial  opera  house.  
How  grand  it  had  been,  how  magnificent,  how  full  of  hope  the  morning.  His  
brother  had  silently  shown  the  way,  lifting  his  finger,  a  conductor  with  his  baton:  
this  way  and  that  way  along  the  road.  
  
“We’re  at  that  piece  of  land,  father,  that  piece  of  land  you  gave  me,  in  the  
lower  forest,  past  the  chapel  at  the  edge  of  the  village.  We  were  cutting  down  
trees.”  
  
“What  are  you  talking  about,  boy?  I  didn’t  give  you  any  land.”  
  
“Father?”  
  
“Just  drive,”  the  father  croaked.  “Just  drive  out  of  there.”  
  
And  so  he  drove.  He  placed  the  little  phone  in  the  unused  car  ashtray  
between  the  seats.  He  strained  anxiously  forward,  peering  through  the  
windshield  as  if  he  were  driving  through  the  deepest,  darkest  night.  He  thought  
of  that  fairytale,  the  one  about  the  children,  the  brother  and  sister,  how  they  left  
crumbs  of  bread  on  the  forest  trail  so  they  could  find  their  way  back  home,  but  
the  birds  had  eaten  the  crumbs,  night  had  fallen,  and  the  forest  had  become  an  
unfathomable  maze.  Oh,  those  birds,  those  clever  little  birds!  How  they  had  flown  
from  the  falling  trees!  How  graceful  they  had  been!  How  quick  to  save  their  own  
lives!  
  
Adam  stirred  in  the  backseat.  
  
“Where  are  we  going?”  he  called  out  through  the  fog  of  pain.  

  

5  

  
But  Marko’s  concentration,  his  powers  of  observation,  were  stretched  so  
tightly  that  he  couldn’t  have  possibly  answered  even  the  simplest  question,  let  
alone  the  one  his  brother  asked.  At  each  new  bend  in  the  road,  the  forest  looked  
utterly  familiar  to  him,  not  only  as  if  they’d  covered  that  same  ground  earlier  in  
the  day,  but  as  if  he’d  been  there  countless  times  before,  knew  it  as  well  as  the  
back  of  his  own  hand.  And  yet  at  the  same  time,  each  new  vista,  each  new  
arrangement  of  trees  flung  across  the  landscape,  looked  utterly  strange,  as  if  he  
were  driving  through  a  foreign  country,  a  different  planet  even.  There  could  be  
no  chapel  here,  he  thought,  no  village.  It  was  inconceivable.  Surely  they  were  
miles  from  civilization.    
  
Suddenly,  he  heard  an  odd  chirping  musical  sound,  high-­‐pitched  and  
mechanical.  He  turned  his  head  sharply  and  looked  back  at  his  brother  to  
determine  if  the  sound  was  coming  from  him.  He  took  in  the  deathly  pale  face  
thrown  back  against  the  seat,  the  dark  pool  collecting  under  his  legs.  Oh  brother,  
my  brother,  Marko  mouthed  the  words,  feeling  a  surge  of  affection  and  pity,  don’t  
leave  me  yet.    And  though  his  brother  made  no  movement,  did  not  respond  to  
Marko’s  unspoken  words,  the  strange  sound  continued.  It  was  the  phone,  it  
dawned  on  Marko,  it  was  his  own  little  phone  set  in  the  ashtray  a  few  minutes  
before.  He  looked  out  at  the  road  again  and  took  one  hand  off  the  steering  wheel  
to  pick  up  the  tiny  instrument.  He  hoped  it  was  his  father  calling,  or  a  neighbor,  
someone  to  give  him  instructions,  someone  to  help  him  out  of  his  troubles.  But  
his  palm  was  damp  and  the  thing  slipped  out  of  it,  like  a  child’s  toy,  and  fell  to  the  
floor  before  he  could  answer.    Leaning  forward  with  one  hand  on  the  wheel,  
Marko  patted  his  other  around  on  the  floor,  searching  for  the  source  of  the  
sound.  He  tried  to  keep  his  eyes  on  the  road  but  at  one  point  lowered  them  in  a  
vain  effort  to  locate  the  black  phone  sliding  along  the  black  rug,  and  at  that  
moment  the  car  too  slid  off  the  road  with  a  lurch,  and  catapulted  down  a  slope,  
bumping  and  jostling  along  the  way.  When  the  vehicle  finally  came  to  a  stop  at  
the  bottom,  the  little  phone  was  still  alive,  still  emitting  its  maddening  cry.  And  
then  it  stopped,  stopped,  and  the  only  sound  in  the  sinking  vessel  was  one  
brother  gasping  raggedly  for  air.      
  
He  felt  as  if  were  still  in  a  dream  when  he  woke.  The  dream  of  an  emotion,  of  a  
feeling,  of  some  untouchable  time,  a  time  in  which  he  had  never  lived  but  that  
hovered  all  about  him,  permeating  each  and  every  solid  thing  he  had  ever  
known.  His  eyes  were  closed.  He  enjoyed  the  sense  of  not  moving  at  last,  of  
resting,  the  silence  all  around  him.  Of  it  being  over.  He  felt  a  sudden  wave  of  
nostalgia.  He  had  never  been  a  soldier,  never  been  a  fighting  man.  His  father  too  
had  missed  the  brotherhood  of  combat,  had  been  a  teenager  at  the  end  of  the  last  
big  war.  But  Marko  felt  those  must  have  been  good  times.  They  must  have  had  a  
bracing  clarity.  Life  stripped  of  all  but  the  most  essential  choices.  Survival  was  
everything,  the  only  thing.  A  cow  gave  milk  and  that  was  good  enough.  And  
there’d  been  enormous  optimism  in  all  that  destruction.  Tens  of  millions  of  
soldiers  could  fall  in  battle  and  tens  of  millions  more  would  come  to  take  their  
place.  Whole  cities  could  be  turned  to  rubble,  cathedrals  wantonly  destroyed,  
bridges  collapse  into  the  great  waterways  beneath  them,  glorious  works  of  art  
burned  to  ash.  Not  to  worry,  the  generals  smiled  nonchalantly  as  the  bombs  
rained  down.  We’ll  rebuild  better  than  before.  We’ll  build  even  greater  tributes  
to  the  ingenuity  of  mankind:  his  ability  to  invent,  his  ability  to  destroy.  Our  

  

6  

buildings  will  be  higher,  our  coffers  will  overflow—and  so  they  had,  so  they  had.  
No  matter  how  bad  things  had  been  in  those  dark  days,  there’d  always  been  the  
certainty  of  revival,  of  reawakening,  of  winter  inevitably  being  followed  by  
spring,  the  freeze  followed  by  the  thaw.  But  now  for  some  reason  the  snow  had  
stopped  falling  and  only  leaves  carpeted  the  forest  floor,  and  with  this  thought  of  
the  forest,  this  thought  of  unfallen  snow,  Marko’s  eyes  screeched  open  and  he  
remembered  where  he  was,  remembered  what  had  happened.      
  
He  pushed  his  door  open  and  stepped  outside.  He  took  a  quick  inventory  
of  his  own  limbs  and  discovered,  that  save  a  bump  on  his  forehead,  he  was  
uninjured.  The  car  had  come  to  rest  a  good  distance  beneath  the  road,  probably  
out  of  sight  of  it.  The  front  of  the  car  had  collided  with  a  large  tree  trunk  and  had  
collapsed  like  the  bellows  of  an  accordion.  A  faint  wisp  of  smoke  escaped  from  
under  the  hood.  He  doubted  it  would  start  again  and,  even  if  it  did,  he  could  
hardly  drive  it  back  up  the  hill  they  had  come  down.  He  peered  in  the  window  of  
the  backseat  and  saw  that  his  brother  had  rolled  off  the  seat  and  lay  face  down,  
wedged  between  the  two  seats.  He  lay  entirely  still.  To  Marko’s  relief,  his  legs  
didn’t  appear  to  be  bleeding  anymore,  though  the  stain  on  the  seat  where  he  had  
laid  before  was  dark  and  wide.  It  was  nearly  dark  outside  as  well.  The  
temperature  had  fallen  and  the  hoarfrost  clung  once  again  to  the  trunks  of  the  
trees.  Marko  looked  up  at  the  golden  leaves  shimmering  like  sequins  amidst  the  
white  branches,  the  moon  rising  above  the  trees.  A  sudden  gust  of  evening  wind  
rose  and  the  ash  tree  above  Marko’s  head  was  finally  persuaded  to  release  her  
riches.  The  leaves  fell  from  her  branches  in  a  sudden  magnificent  torrent,  a  
shower  of  falling  coins.  Marko  held  out  his  hands  and  felt  them  cascading  
through  his  fingers.    
  
Oh,  the  things  they  promised,  he  thought.  All  that  gold.    
  
But  he  shook  off  the  dream,  shook  off  the  promise.  He  pulled  his  sweater  
off  and  began  to  unbutton  his  shirt.  He  would  tear  the  fabric  and  make  
tourniquets  for  his  brother’s  legs.  He  would  find  the  phone.  He  would  get  them  
out  of  there.  Survival  was  the  goal  now,  the  only  goal.    
  

  

7  


