We planned to arrive at the funeral home by six. The entire family. Aunts and uncles,
brothers and sisters, the cousins, children and grandchildren—all 39 of us. It had been a
good morning for the Hertz counter in LaGuardia’s Terminal A. I had come the farthest,
excusing myself abruptly from my summer job on campus in Iowa.
We made the trip up the turnpike in time to spend the afternoon at the beach, trying
to lose our sorrow in the timid, brown waves of the Sound. I’d gone to this beach with my
grandfather every August for as long as I could remember.
The beach had been a special place for Grandpa since he moved to this town as a
young father in the early 1930s. He loved the kle-o, kle-o, kle-o of the herring gulls as they
waited, hovering, for part of a sandwich to drop from a young hand. On the clear, still days
when the smog didn’t creep out from the city, he’d jab his thick forefinger in the direction of
Old Field Point across the Sound and shout, “You can see it! You can see it, can’t you?” If we
were lucky, we’d catch Grandpa on the most wonderful day of the summer. He’d say it was.
We’d walk hand-in-hand with him on the cool, forgiving sand near the water until the tide
started going out and it was time to go home.
This was our first trip to the beach without Grandpa. But all of us were reassured
that some things don’t change when, at about four, Aunt Molly began digging her watch out
of a faded, canvas beach bag. “Four! Four!” she exclaimed, sounding like the bursts from the
Metro-North trains as they stopped in town on their way to Grand Central. So we gathered
our sandy, wet things and trudged oﬀ the beach.
The white August sun had heated the black parking lot to scorching. All of us
firewalked across the shimmering asphalt and found our rentals, Impalas and Tauruses
among the Mercedes and BMWs. We followed Aunt Molly out of the lot to the winding
Beach Road, one car falling in after another in an unwitting precursor to tomorrow’s
procession. We made our way through the narrow road lined with sand and marram grass to
the boulevards and massive, shady oaks of my grandparents’ neighborhood. Our caravan
turned carefully oﬀ the Lower Road onto the long, circular driveway of their house. Even in
the shade of the old trees, the pea gravel popped like Fourth of July Snaps under the warm
weight of the cars.
We tumbled into the house and took our turns in cool showers that washed away the
day’s suntan lotion, salt and sand. In the shade and air conditioning of the old house, my
afternoon of beach sun quickly became a sunburn that would be more conspicuous than the
pink tie I planned to wear to the viewing.
My mother grew up in this house. It is nestled to the south of the Episcopal Church
and the town hall, but just before the town green and the large, wooden gazebo that's home
to the Citizen Symphony. It seems those landmarks—like most of the buildings in town—
were painted from the same bucket of white paint.
Though the old house is a mile and a half inland, it had been a mariner’s home. Its
most visible feature is the widow’s walk, a railed platform on the roof that allowed the
woman of the house to see out to the froth of the Sound. Through brass binoculars
burnished by years of nervous hands, she could search for her husband's returning ship,
though she wouldn’t always find it.
The town was one of the two original colonial settlements on the coast, more than
200 years older than my grandparents’ house. Almost four centuries later, the town and its
people still take their colonial heritage seriously. The architecture of the northern colonies,
a striking, sturdy woman with no makeup, can be seen everywhere.

As we pulled into the parking lot of the funeral home, with its English balance and
side-gabled roof, I caught sight of the A&P across the Post Road. Complete with a widow’s
walk, the grocery store was indistinct from the large, 200-year-old homes in the
neighborhood behind it. The shoulders of the houses had slumped with age, making it look
like they were turning their backs on their 20th-century descendant.
As I held open the funeral home’s white, six-panel door for the group from our
Impala, a stinging, air-conditioned cold rushed at me and began lapping at my sunburn. The
faint smell of formaldehyde mixed with my father’s Old Spice as we walked into the lobby. It
was lit dimly on both sides with wall sconces of two flickering, electric candles whose ivory
plastic bodies had been molded to make it look like they were melting.
We joined the rest of our family and stood shivering on the gray slate floor. All of us
began to stare at the brass knobs of the closed parlor doors just ahead of us for the first sign
that they would open. My grandfather’s name, printed on parchment-colored copy paper in
a Revolutionary-era font, had been hung to the right of the doors in a wide, gilded frame.
Even as we waited, each of us began our role in the drama. There were the criers, of
course. But we came across the Atlantic from England in the mid-1600s to the American
wilderness. We didn’t cry then and we shouldn’t start. Even so, the undertaker, a thin
woodpecker in a dark charcoal suit and cheap shoes, entered the scene and scurried around
the lobby hustling Kleenexes like a vendor does beer at a Yankees’ game. Most of the family
stood in silence, shuﬄing their feet on the slate and wondering what possibly could be
happening behind the parlor doors.
A sharp, wooden groan punctured the raw air. Everyone stopped. There was the
undertaker propping himself up on the brass knobs inside the partially opened doors. He

had taken a mysterious back route into the parlor and was welcoming us like he was the host
of a cabaret show.
“Please come in,” he said in a slow, practiced voice, bowing his head repeatedly like
he was pecking for insects in an unseen tree. “Please, please come in. Please….” He had
opened the parlor doors completely by now.
We went in slowly, like his voice, as if he’d used it to set the pace for our visit. The
criers became louder as they took short glances up from their wet Kleenexes at the polished
mahogany casket, brilliant, dark and final against the pale yellow walls. The shuﬄers stood
still at assorted distances from it and stared at what their eyes found in its pillowed satin
lining.
I was not looking at the casket. I couldn’t. I stood at a right angle to it and continued
to survey my extended family and my shoes. As I stared at my loafers, I was overcome by a
profound and anxious longing. I became soaked with random memories of Grandpa,
fragments of our life together that came barreling at me, out of control, like they were being
poured one after the other down a playground slide.
My memories of Grandpa felt diﬀerent now. They once had been infinite,
uncountable. But today, I could number each of them. And something had gone out of
them, too. Grandpa had taken with him the chance to do any of it even one more time. For
inside each memory of someone alive is the sweet, shining possibility that it could happen
again, that it might be recreated and relived in an even more fantastic way. But when
someone dies, that possibility dies with them and all that is left are Polaroids, however
stunning, that will work their way to black, too.

As I lifted my head, trying to shake myself of this new reality, it was clear that
something was wrong. Even the criers had stopped, abandoning their tissues for appalled
gapes. No one moved. It was quiet enough to hear the cars on the busy, rush-hour Post
Road. I had no choice now. I turned towards Grandpa, pivoting on my left foot like I was
catching a pass during a pickup basketball game.
I now was perpendicular to the casket, which had been opened completely by the
undertaker. My eyes were the last to see what my parents and all my relatives had discovered
since he had welcomed us so grandly. My mouth was the last to fall open.
They had dressed Grandpa in a navy suit and a well-pressed white broadcloth shirt
with a point collar. He didn’t seem to be wearing the clothes as much as they had found a
place to rest, a quiet roost of bluebirds. The undertaker was at the casket, tending carefully
to my grandfather’s crimson silk foulard necktie. While he did, it had become clear to
everyone else in the parlor that something had been forgotten.
Nearly everyone had started to mutter one thing or another about what they saw. I
listened. The muttering was circumspect, but intense, like the grumbles of the Episcopal
Women’s Guild when they disagree with the rector. The mutterers might have gone on for
hours, energized by their newfound malevolence, but they were doomed by the cowardice
betrayed by their whispers. It was Aunt Molly who belted it clearly first: “His fly is open!”
There was a great exhalation. And then the muttering untangled itself and become a
cacophony of scrutiny and condemnation. “Yes, his zipper’s down…it should be up…his fly
shouldn’t be down!…how could it be down?…who would have made such a mistake?” Some
of the children from the Midwest giggled and made quiet mention of the barns in the
countryside past their suburban homes.

5

The Adjustment
All eyes left my grandfather and his open shop to look for the undertaker. The faces
of each of my relatives had the focused glow of a searchlight during the London Blitz. But if
the undertaker felt the heat of their beams, he wasn’t showing it. He strode solemnly, but
confidently to the casket, where he took a position directly in front of the open zipper
teeth.
Wasting no time and looking straight ahead so he didn’t draw further attention to
the problem, he quickly moved the oﬀending puller from south to north, without even a
hint of the usual “zzzzzzip!” When it was done, he took the same solemn, confident strides
back to the lobby. It was only there, out of sight of his guests, that he mopped the sweat
that had gathered on his forehead since Aunt Molly’s declaration.
The whole thing lasted no more than a minute or two. But at the Connecticut
Funeral Directors Association meeting the next spring in Trumbull, the undertaker was
given the Excellence in Mortuary Crisis Management Award for his dispatch and calm. It is
said that receiving the award is such an honor that the presentation ceremony is one of the
only moments in an undertaker’s career that will put a smile on his face. The statuette they
handed the undertaker as he beamed from the podium was topped by two gold Minutemen
in tricorns, each supporting one end of a gold casket.
As the undertaker wiped his brow in the lobby, the crying and shuﬄing began again,
mixed with disbelieving comments about what already had become known in the family as
“The Adjustment.” Everything was returning to chaotic normal.
Out of the chaos, we began to approach the casket one family after another, with all
the steadiness and determination of the Sons and Daughters of the American Revolution
that we are. We slowly paid our respects to my grandfather as I had thought we would.

6

The Adjustment
When the last family was finished, Aunt Molly turned quickly, but gracefully towards
the lobby, its impotent candles still flickering, but producing no melted wax. The undertaker
was still collecting himself. A hush fell over the parlor as we realized the exchange that was
bound to take place next. Aunt Molly once had made a store clerk cry because she had been
called “Ms.” instead of “Mrs.”
It had gotten so quiet that we could hear the Yankees’ game playing softly on an AM
radio in the undertaker's oﬃce. Aunt Molly took the undertaker’s hand and, looking him
square in the eyes, shook it with sincerity, enveloping the right hand he extended with two
in white gloves. To our surprise, she said nothing. Aunt Molly couldn’t hide her
dissatisfaction, but she did not rebuke him. When they dropped their brief grip, he left her
quickly, shuﬄing backwards and making bow after bow, like a peasant spared execution by a
feudal emperor.
Aunt Molly was moving on, and all of us with her. Tomorrow, there would be the
funeral. We informed the undertaker just before leaving that the casket should be closed at
the Episcopal Church tomorrow morning, hastily conceived insurance against any further
dereliction.
We filed out of the funeral home quietly, enjoying the return to normal air and
making dinner plans as we went. My cousins and I said we’d go back to the beach the next
day. As we walked in the faded orange sunlight to our cars, my mind drifted to memories.
The traﬃc had lightened on the Post Road and I thought I could hear the gentle waves of
the Sound as the tide was going out.

7


