Brother John and I ascended the steep mountain pass in a series of circles and
switchbacks as if we were taking a drive around the sun – the road bit its tail so often that
the sun was below us, then above us, then beside us, then behind us like a family of
identical siblings.

The darkness finally fell upon us and we were stuck yet again between a rock and a hard
place – the sheer wall of Scylla to the right of us, and the sucking whirlpool of Charybdis
to the left. The treacherously narrow pass continued to coil forever up the mountain like a
crooked spine; its misshapen vertebrae clung to the body of the slope as if it were the
fossil remains of a prehistoric monster. As we bumped along over stumps and around
boulders and the dense fog slowed us to a crawl, I realized we were low on gas and we no
longer had control of the daylight. I dreaded having to pull over and spend the night on
the devil’s backbone.

We didn’t. We advanced through the darkness, digging up the unpredictable and brushing
away the miles with an archeologist’s toothbrush diligence and pace. The potholes soon
widened their gape. The hunchback of the road snapped here and there and dropped into
the abyss leaving only a single wavering lane to follow. Dark clouds. No moon. No
power lines or electricity of any kind, the night dropped its black. We could only see as
far as the next ditch. Both hands on the steering wheel, I dedicated all my mental strength
to maneuver around these holes. Successfully. They were deep. I’m talking moon craters

here. But following every success was a hairpin turn that left us teetering on the brink.
Thank God Brother John was on good terms with St. Christopher, the patron saint of
travel.

This went on interminably and so did my apprehensions. But I was riding with a priest, so
that should give me some sort of insurance, shouldn’t it? Now this thought could travel
along the neural highway in two directions – diametrically. It could mean I was protected
in a hierarchy of all the saints, the Virgin Mary, Jesus, and the Holy Ghost. Or it could
mean, if anything ‘did’ happen and ‘I’ were to give up the ghost, that I would have a
priest ready at hand to perform my last rites. Very convenient. I was trying to be
optimistic.

After hours of rugged road we finally reached the top of the mountain path and began our
descent into the heart of things. Once desensitized and numbed by the jarring ride we
could relax and have some decent, uninterrupted conversations.

“Do you think the Beatles and The Stones took this road in?” I said.

“I don’t know, but I find it unlikely, since this pass was probably in much worse
condition in the 1960’s, if it existed at all. They probably flew them in over these
mountains by helicopters.”

“Wow, it’s amazing such famous people would travel half way around the world, drop
from the sky in giant machines upon a wee village, just to meet a wee Nun, the old
curandera, Maria Sabina, and taste her wee mushrooms.”

“Pull over,” John said, “I have to take another wee. Just kidding…Yes, but they were no
ordinary mushrooms and she was an extraordinary woman. Those years were an
incredible time to be alive. So much was happening; a thundering shift in energy. You
could feel it in the air you breathed. The old world and the new world simultaneously
clashed in war and embraced in peace. Vietnam and the Love Generation. The outer and
inner worlds were two opposing forces joining in a sensitive and unusual new way. The
powers of western civilization, those old conquerors and masters of the material world,
were meeting the force of the divine, the power within. And for the first time in centuries
we could have real communion – the personal and direct experience of God. Not just the
symbolic leftovers from a culture obsessed with dead things. For the first time we could
partake in the real sacraments, not just an empty wafer. Eat the real body and blood of
the Holy Spirit. We could taste God, see him, feel him, touch him. Just like Tommy. A
rip in the eternal darkness opened for a brief moment and let the light in. It was music
and dancing in the streets. This was the light of Love and it was everywhere trying to
plant its seeds and take root. But the forces of evil quickly stitched it shut. The leaders of
America, uptight and mean-spirited, kept warning the public that Elvis and rock and roll
would bring on the end of civilization. And they were correct! They had every reason to
fear. Because the new generation would end the world as they knew it. And things
haven’t been the same since. They’re still trying to stop it. But somehow all the king’s

horses and all the king’s men can’t put Tricky Dicky back together again. And here were
the Beatles, the diplomats for youth and love, visiting this enchanting old woman in some
remote village. She was the high priestess of the new world, herself a diplomat for the
divine, showing us her generosity and sharing her knowledge. Opening the doors of
perception to the West and allowing its children to open their eyes. Well! That didn’t last
long. They threw her in jail for two years. And it wasn’t even the Mexican government
who did it. The Mexicans tolerated their indigenous people and left them alone, accepting
it as part of their culture. It was pressure from America, flexing its mighty muscle for all
countries to enforce its strident drug policy.”

“Do you see the younger generations today pulling their own weight?” I asked, always
enjoying a few wise words from any smart thinker whose reflections have become
insightful only from having put in the mileage, bumping over the wreckage left by
ignorance.

“I do!” Brother John said, “But then I’m an optimist. These kids hold the future in their
hands and in their hearts. And they are far more resourceful than the hippies. The sixties
produced a generation of well intentioned but pitifully naïve individuals. Today these
kids enter the workforce straight out of collage expecting a bigger slice of the pie. They
are empowered; they are aware of their environment and try to help preserve it; they have
more control over their destiny; and they make wise, informed decisions.”

He stopped for a moment to reflect and then continued, “You see, in every age there are
pockets of illumination and darkness. As the sundial spins its shadow finger around the
centuries, the Middle Ages and the Renaissance battle it out in an eternal struggle. At any
moment through history there have been advances in science and retreats into
fundamental gloom – knowledge and ignorance living side by side – traveling on the
Chinese silk roads, paved with enlightenment, from the muddy back roads of a dark
Europe. I believe the light will triumph. But at the same time you can have Gandhi and
Lawrence of Arabia, you have the Nazis, or even worse (for India and the Middle East at
least), the British imperial government. You know that Churchill, after the war, told his
parliament upon returning from Iranian oil fields that, ‘the East holds for England an
untold wealth from fairyland.’ Today you have an army of young material kids, headed
for Wall Street and the banking industry, arrogant, cocky as all hell, and insensitive to the
needs of the rest of the world – unless of course there is something in it for them. But you
also have the kids we met earlier at the conference: thoughtful, considerate, and
conscious of every act lest it cause an undesired effect. Night and day – entire worlds
apart for that matter! We live in the midst of chaos and violence. I mean, take a look at
how we arrived here. The universe was born from a catastrophe, a massive explosion
beyond imagination. We exist because a violent event created us. Maybe, in the
beginning, before the big bang, Jehovah did have a wife. But she turned out to be too
much for him, so in a drunken fit he torched the place. At least that’s what the Gnostics
believed – that our universe is governed by a local, petty, drunken god. You see, the force
of love is so much stronger and drives, through the violence, a penetrating stake made
from the leftover shards of light and the power of compassion.”

The first sign of life was a sprinkle of lights along the steep slopes. Initially we thought
these isolated dots of illumination, flickering and so far away, were fireflies or stars low
on the horizon. But as these lights accumulated into small nuggets and then larger
clusters, we were able to see for the first time after a dog-day afternoon, the outlines of
the landscape like a Ferris wheel of orbiting bulbs unraveling along the ridges. It revealed
a staggering number of mountain peaks and valleys. Were we in the shadows of the
Valley of Death? Nope! It was A Small World After All. The only thing missing was the
annoying song and the boat full of screaming kids. I’m sure this must be where Disney
got the inspiration. The fireflies and the stars slowly transformed into a toy world of
miniature dwellings tenaciously attached to the slopes by sheer will and the devil of
intent. As our eyes grew accustomed to our amusement park for the visual cortex, we
could now detect the movement of a lone truck here and there and a scatter of families
walking home from the cornfields.

As the traffic increased we were alarmed by the incongruous appearance of BMW’s
pulling into swank haciendas. So even here, as elsewhere in the world, one finds the
lumpy misdistribution of wealth. But once we drove up the windy cobblestone road into
the center of town, the lumps got lumpier. The village was amply lit like Las Vegas
before Luxor, before Disney Family Entertainment, before the Mafia converted seedy
into cheesy. The blaring lights brought out the eyes of the rats on the roofs and the dust
and grime glistening down the unpainted walls of everything. I had the immediate feeling
we had entered Transylvania. The “vampires” descended and swarmed our car. “Ongos!

Ongos!” They screeched, displaying their Magic Mushrooms. Aggressive little creatures.
One arm flew in through the car window with a hand at its end that stopped in front of
my face at mouth level. I saw in its palm a grungy old banana leaf folded over. When the
flap was removed, lo and behold, there before me like some evil apostles were a dozen
foul, black, moldy mushrooms! The last thing I needed in front of my mouth at the center
of nowhere.

“No, gracias,” I said politely, and drove on.

We pulled up to the first hotel that had been recommended by some of the conference
participants who had been to Huautla years before. They warned us there would only be
two hotels in town, but there turned out to be quite a number of them. We walked into the
lobby and a tired old husband and wife disappointingly informed us, “Yes some
Americans are here but they are up in their rooms sleeping and unfortunately we have no
other vacancies. And the night clerk has taken the registrar, so we don’t know the names
of the Americans staying here.” But they were loath to recommend another hotel when
we asked. I know the competition is fierce out there, but hey, help out a stranger in the
night. Not even a stable with a manger for the two wise guys arrived from the West? So
Brother John and I walked down the street to a place that didn’t look too shabby. I
stepped up to the lobby’s dimly lit reception desk – a Port-a-Potty has better light. And I
swear to God, something half human walked toward me. It was very small and I thought
it suffered from dwarfism. It had wide set eyes and a mangled beard that wrapped around
its face like a turban and looked like it had been used to thrash other animals. And then

its voice gave me the chills. I know my Spanish isn’t great but it responded to my
question in Grasshopper – regional Grasshopper. As much as I strained my ears I
couldn’t make out a single word of its gibberish. It looked like one of the Troglodytes
from The City of Lost Children. He stepped out from behind the desk to show us some
rooms and I’m not making this up: he had a super-sized ring of old rusty keys and he
walked with a limp. The limp got to me. Suddenly my compassion kicked in and I felt
sorry for the small fellow. I realized it had to be a man because there was far too much
body hair for it to be a woman. Señor Igor led us down some pretty scary passageways.
The doors to the rooms were made of iron. Any moment I expected to bump into the
Bride of Frankenstein having her own bad hair day.

The rooms weren’t bad. They smelled good. The beds were well made and clean. But
Brother John and I still wanted to find our friends, so we said thank you and suggested
we might be back. There was only one road that snaked through town, winding around
the buildings, which were above and below each other like terraced farming on the side
of a mountain. We finally arrived at the ‘Luxor’ of Huautla, painted in loud white and
brightly lit. The lobby light was so piercing it could have been used as an interrogation
room. At the front desk was a young man flirting with a muy simpatica señorita. He was
so enraptured by her dark charms he barely acknowledged us. I had to be bold in asking
for a room and he reluctantly recited the hotel formalities while continuing to ogle the
girl. I happened to glance at the guest’s register and noticed that at least two of our
friends were staying here. That was reassuring. Begrudgingly, the clerk showed us our
rooms, walking in front of us with the girl, still bragging away about owning the hotel

one day – the usual ‘impress the woman before banging her’ type of braggadocio. He
guided us down a steep, spiraling staircase, the light doubling in intensity as we
descended because now the twittering florescent lights had no covers. Down and down
we went, no end in sight. How many floors could this place have? Finally, having
reached the bottom of this abyss, he handed us the key and ran off to get laid.

But unfortunately, not the maid! The overwhelming reek of some chemical accosted us as
we entered the room. Industrial floor cleaner doesn’t have that kind of kick. I turned on
the lights. Ouch! I had entered the real interrogation room. The light hit me like a bat.
Then I heard Brother John say, “Oh God, please, this is just plain rude!”

I looked over to see the sheets hadn’t been changed from the previous occupiers. So I
hurried up the stairs to catch the guy before he slid into home plate. He was miffed that I
would ask him to have the beds made. So, suffering coitus interruptus, he trudged off to
get a maid. As the room was being sprayed and the beds were being made, I heard
Brother John using the Lord’s name in vain.

“!#%*&, I can’t believe this place! Have the lunatics taken over the asylum? There’s no
toilet seat. Do you think having something to sit on besides porcelain costs extra?”

Up the down staircase. I didn’t know the word for toilet seat in Spanish. “¿Tiene usted
algo redondo para sentarse en el cuarto de baño?” I asked for the round thing you sit on in
the bathroom, explaining there wasn’t one currently installed. He looked at me with, “Is

there a problem with that?” kind of attitude. I told him the other hotels ALL have toilet
seats. He quickly rummaged through some shelves, found a toilet seat next to a cowboy
hat, and handed it to me. I had to laugh. You’re installing it buddy, not me. You don’t
hand your guest the toilet seat, not even in Mexico. He shrugged his shoulders, put on the
cowboy hat and walked off with the cheap plastic toilet cover under his arm. I asked him
if he was expecting rain, pointing to the hat. He said no, but you never knew when the
plumbing might explode. That was reassuring. Now I knew why the cowboy hat leaned
next to the toilet seat on the shelf.

Brother John had given up swearing, but he did point out to me that due to the young
man’s artful exertions of attaching a simple toilet seat with two little bolts, the floor was
now completely trashed with dirt and heavy black tread marks. I looked in to see for
myself. It looked like a porno film crew had been in there. I have never seen so many
footprints in one place. It was a veritable idiot stampede. He had even besmirched the
walls and the shower tiles – a shower stall, I might add, which was level with the rest of
the floor and no door separating the two.

Back up the flight of stairs. I could feel the fiber in my skinny legs being churned to
muscle. He was sitting behind the desk looking very melancholy. I guess he had struck
out after all.

“Look,” I said, point blank, “you need to come back down and clean the mess you’ve
left.”

He looked at me with a dumbfounded expression. He understood the words but he
couldn’t figure out their meaning. I had to physically grab him by the arm and lead him
down the stairs. I told him to go look at the bathroom floor. He stood there staring at the
floor for a long time. Then he looked at me quizzically with a face that said, Yeah, so?
What’s the problem? After recovering from my disbelief, I put it to him, as any parent
would have in explaining bad behavior to their five year old.

“If YOU were traveling on a long journey and you arrived at the hotel tired and wanted to
take a shower and the bathroom floor looked like this, would YOU take a shower? Would
YOU walk into this bathroom barefoot?”

The words took a slow cruise through his nervous system and when they finally reached
his brain, an air of lucidity brightened his face. I could see why this guy’s seduction
techniques had failed. Maybe it was just that the girl being seduced had stepped barefoot
onto the bathroom floor of this burgeoning hotel mogul. He ran off to get a maid.

“What’s that horrid chemical smell?”

“I don’t know but I think it’s coming from the bathroom.”

I walked over to the toilet bowl and lifted the rickety new seat. The tank was uncovered. I
immediately noticed, not one but two deodorizer bars, one in the tank and one in the

bowl, held in place by a wire as ratty and misshapen as a chewed dog bone dangling from
kitty yarn. The deodorizer chunk left in the tank was plutonium-blue and the one in the
bowl glowed Chernobyl-green and the fusion of the two generated a portable nuclear
reaction that made it impossible to breathe and remain in the room. I grabbed both lumps
by their spindly, twisted lines, walked over to the window and ejected them like warheads
down the twenty-story side of the building. They left blue and green light trails in the
darkness as they descended and when I looked down the side of the cliff on which the
hotel was attached I could see a small blue-green mushroom cloud rise up from the nightblooming fields of psilocybin.

Then I slammed the window shut, relieved to be out of harm’s way. We heard a loud
explosion but it wasn’t coming from the nuclear chunks. There was yet another socialist
antigovernment rally going on in the churchyard and the speakers boomed like sonic jets
in battle. The windows began to rattle. Even earplugs were rendered useless. We were
forced to evacuate the hotel room. But we didn’t mind. We hadn’t eaten all day and were
starved.

We walked around exploring different restaurants but nothing looked very appetizing. It
was all greasy fish and soggy vegetables and grimy settings.

Then we stumbled into a little hole in the wall that was fairly well lit. At least lit well
enough for us to see that the place settings were clean and respectable and the tablecloths
spotlessly white. But the real deciding factor was the silverware sealed in tight plastic

bags. That much care and attention to detail in a restaurant was reassurance enough. We
sat down happily and began to browse the menus. Everything was looking good.

Until we both happened to glance in one dark corner and notice two old women sealing
the silverware into small plastic units using a simple heating device. Upon further
observation, though, as the two women continued methodically stuffing the knives and
forks and spoons into these antiseptic bags we were gradually made aware that
occasionally one of the spoons would fall to the floor or they might notice a tortilla
crumb on a fork edge. In either case they would bring that spoon or fork up to their old
eyes for closer inspection. Spotting the unclean area they would position the utensil near
their mouths, breathe vapor onto its surface, rub it to sheen on their soiled aprons, return
it to their squinting eyes for re-inspection and, finally satisfied, seal their germs tightly
within the germ resistant bags.

Before the next spoon hit the floor,
John and I flew out the door!

We made our way back up the winding road where the stench of dead things lingered in
the air from the discarded remains of that day’s outdoor market. Through poorly lit
warrens and a succession of cobbled alleys, whose dim lanterns dangled from wires just
above our heads, we arrived on the main strip at the center of town. Everything was
closed except for a taco stand. It was attractively ornamented with colored lights and
served up a balanced grill of meats on one side and vegetarian on the other. Perfect for

Brother John’s German ancestry of heavy meat eaters and my adopted whimsical diet of
lean vegetables. The entire stand gleamed under the lights from recent polishing and
loving care, and the grill surface was squeaky clean. It began to drizzle so we sat on the
stools in front of the taco stand under its copious awnings. The warmth from the grill was
comforting and the girl behind the grill was friendly and accommodating. She had a
beautiful smile; gleaming white teeth, as well polished as her taco stand; and her almondshaped eyes were large and profound. She was shy when we spoke with her and often
looked skittishly away. It’s a good thing or her eyes would have penetrated our historydeficient-gringo-souls with their ancient depths and native innocence.

Brother John pointed out that the napkin holders were shaped like mushrooms and one of
the menu items was a Maria Sabina Mushroom Omelet. The young woman acquired a
huge smile, pleased with our appreciation of her purposeful display – set for John and me
as it had been set for the hundreds of yearly tourists before us – lookie loos, curiosity
seekers and adventurers who visit this remote village with the same intent as ourselves –
be it noble or nefarious. She possessed self-confidence and fortitude. I had the feeling she
owned the stand, which was substantial and favorably located. When I asked, she said she
had saved her money and bought the stand in Oaxaca, two years ago, from a retired man.
She multitasked the orders lightning-fast, both hands moving skillfully and independently
with firmness of purpose and a final resolution to perhaps retire young as a wealthy
woman of the town – lots of kids, land, gold, and wisdom. Her name was Sophia.

John worked me like a prospector panning for nuggets. He had a hundred loaded
questions for me to ask Sophia, all related to understanding her culture.

“Was the church used for other purpose than demonstrations?”

“Oh, yes,” she volunteered joyfully and with an abundance of enthusiasm, “but tonight
was a special meeting of the union of farmers. It was very serious stuff. The night before,
one of the union leaders, a poor farm laborer, had been shot. And they believed it was the
land owners who had killed him!”

John was delighted by her gusto. “I guess people don’t get shot very often around here.
Daily life must be routine and boring. What did the church think about all the shamans
and their use of mushrooms in religious ceremony?”

For this inquiry, Sophia was more guarded and looked away. We didn’t think she was
going to answer the question. I thought of a clever use of rapport. So I spoke with her
genuinely. That’s how I speak with everyone anyway, from the heart. Otherwise I
wouldn’t have had any effect on her in eliciting sacred information. Her culture had been
burned too many times by the West. I said she didn’t have to answer if she didn’t want to
but we were curious aficionados of her culture and the very old, pre-Christian use of
magic mushrooms. I think my earnestness reached her heart. She slowly began to reveal
the secrets.

“The church approves the use of the mushrooms in ceremony because the shamans are all
Catholic. Everyone in the town is Catholic. So when the shamans perform the ritual, they
pray to the Virgin Mary and to Jesus to guide them. The altar is encumbered with
Catholic paraphernalia: images and statues of the saints, the Virgin, and Jesus on the
cross. The church is very pleased by this.”

And Brother John was very pleased as well. His suspicions had been confirmed. He
expounded at length. “For all the wickedness the Catholic Church has executed over the
centuries on these poor people, the Church has been far wiser than the Protestants. The
resolute evil of the Puritans has wiped out all the indigenous cultures they encountered,
erasing from the face of history whole languages, customs, and identities. They yanked
the native children away from their parents so that their long lineage of education and
religious initiation has been ruptured forever. The American Indians have had to research
the Smithsonian Institute to recover a paltry handful of their original songs, dances, attire,
and tools that a few decent White Folks actually took the time to preserve. And look at
this sweet woman. She may be wearing Nikes, blue jeans, and a heavy metal T-shirt
under her apron, but she and her culture have remained intact. If religion and MTV
hadn’t intruded she might still be proudly wearing tribal moccasins on her feet and
feathers in her hair like her great grandparents. And instead of serving tacos she might be
roasting our white-boy heads on a stick.”

I had a good long laugh.

Brother John continued. “But when was the last time you saw a family of Sioux or Hopi
selling their wares in a major American city? Systematically, they have been ethnically
cleansed from the puritan society who confiscated their lands. I went to visit a reservation
recently. In the richest country in the world, the Native Americans still live in dire
poverty in concentration camps. And America is spending billions to spread freedom in
the world? Why not first take a look in your own backyard, buddy?”

Sophia understood not a word of English, but she felt the sentiment in Brother John’s
heart and her eyes softened to embrace him.

“Ask her if she has ever eaten magic mushrooms and participated in a shamanic ritual?”

Upon receiving the question, Sophia went about scraping her grill clean for the next
order. She became very quiet and was seemingly reluctant to share the answer. But we
gave her space as we ate our savory tortillas: John’s filled with a fresh variety of local
meats and mine filled with tomatoes and corn and cactus greens and avocado. The corn
tortillas themselves were handmade and sweet. After a while, she offered up her
generosity and said she ate the mushrooms once or twice a year as medicine. But she did
it only under the supervision of her shaman. She said it cured any physical ailments she
may have and gave her spiritual clarity and wisdom to run her business and raise her
family.

The Food and Drug Administration only needs ten years to study a new drug. Her culture
had been using ritualistic mushrooms, which grew naturally in the surrounding hills, for
thousands of years with no history of two-headed babies or rehab clinics. That is the true
litmus test for safety.

John was so moved I could see his eyes watering and I got all mushy too. We continued
to talk and exchange information until she closed up for the night. She was equally
interested in Brother John and me and our culture. Where we live and what we do. But
enough about us…

We walked back to our hotel and as soon as our heads hit the pillows we nodded off like
sailors after the storm. The political racket had died down and finally all was quiet in
Mexico.
	  


