Anne  stared  at  the  miniaturized  “Las  Meninas”  in  her  hand.  Velasquez’  vast  painting  
reduced  to  postcard  size.  She  could  wallpaper  her  kitchen  with  cards  like  these.  Ones  her  
students  —  current  and  former  —  mailed  her  from  summer  vacation  spots.  Anne  steadied  
herself  for  another  one.    
She  put  on  her  reading  glasses  and  turned  the  card  over.    
“Dear  Professor  Carroll,  

At the Prado I saw this magnificent painting we had studied in class. It’s huge — what a
proud self-portrait alongside the perfect princess and her maids. The way Velasquez toys with us
by hiding the subject of his painting and reflects the King and Queen in the mirror is brilliant.
The intensity with which the figures stare out at me gave me goose bumps as if I were the subject
of the painting. I can’t wait to discuss it with you. See you in the fall.
Hasta Luego,
Martha Hernandez”
Like  so  many  others  Martha  Hernandez  had  sought  out  a  masterpiece  Anne  had  
described  in  her  lectures  and  wanted  to  discuss  it  with  her.  She  wanted  to  compare  her  
experience  of  standing  in  front  of  that  larger-­‐than-­‐life  painting  with  Anne’s.       
“Goosebumps,”  Martha  wrote.  Anne  sighed.  Now  was  not  the  time  to  dwell  on  
Martha’s  misconception.    How  lucky  Martha  was  to  travel  to  see  Spanish  paintings  while  in  
her  twenties.  At  her  age,  Anne  had  been  living  an  artist’s  existence  and  broke.  What  would  
it  be  like  to  have  her  whole  life  ahead  of  her?  To  feel  so  passionate?    Since  widowed  two  
years  ago,  Anne  felt  mostly  lonely.  How  would  she  feel  standing  in  front  of  that  
masterpiece?  
Anne  placed  the  card  in  her  pocketbook  and  pulled  out  a  hanky  to  wipe  the  beads  of  
sweat  from  her  neck.  Her  first  class  of  the  fall  semester  at  the  Des  Moines  Area  Community  
College  —  Urban  Campus  began  in  15  minutes.    Not  likely  the  precocious  girl  would  be  
back  in  her  classroom  this  semester.  She’d  already  taken  all  four  classes  Anne  taught.  More  
likely  she’d  show  up  for  Anne’s  office  hours.    
The  path  through  campus  led  her  past  full  parking  lots  and  white  boxy  buildings.  
Her  light  grey  sweater  matched  her  hair,  in  contrast  to  the  brilliant  colors  presenting  on  the  
tips  of  maple  and  elm  leaves.  She  crossed  8th  street,  stepped  onto  the  sidewalk,  and  paused  
to  regain  her  balance.  Students  surged  around  her  as  if  she  were  a  logjam  in  a  flowing  river.  
In  front  of  Hamlett  Hall,  she  tucked  her  bulky  slide  box  under  her  left  arm  and  reached  for  
the  door  handle.  At  the  same  time  a  student  pushed  open  the  heavy  glass  door,  stepped  
through  it  and  held  it  for  her.  She  nodded,  grateful  for  the  gesture.    
Suzanne and Mary, the middle-fifties executive wives who had the time and could afford
to repeat her survey courses, chatted in the front row. They travelled extensively and over the
years, they, too, had sent Anne postcards with famous paintings from far away museums. How
had Martha afforded such a trip? The young woman was working her way through school.
Anne made her way to the slide projector in the middle of the classroom. Her son Stuart,
a painter in Chicago, had offered to convert her hundreds of slides to a PowerPoint presentation.
But she couldn’t be bothered to learn new technology at this point in her life. A life that hadn’t
turned out the way she’d imagined when she graduated with a BFA from New York University
fifty some years ago.
“Hi, Professor Carroll,” Suzanne called out. “How was your summer?”
“I saw the Mona Lisa again,” Mary said. “I just love that painting.”

“I’ll save time at the end of class,” Anne said, avoiding their eyes. “For all of you to tell
us about the paintings you saw this summer.”
She clicked the slide carousel in place, took a deep breath, and walked to the front of the
room. Nearly every seat was filled. Despite the fact that she’d been voted most popular teacher
13 out of the 30 years she’d been teaching, the first lecture of the term always made her nervous.
If the class had been quiet, surely, they would have heard her rapid heartbeat. Sweat now dripped
down her back. The lights dimmed. Botticelli’s “The Birth of Venus” appeared large on the
screen. She stood in the dark room illuminated only by the magnificent painting and took three
slow deep breaths. The conversation hushed. With a strong voice she began her 31st
“Renaissance to Modern” lecture.
She explained that this was the first painting done on a canvas in Florence. Alabaster
powder was the secret to its brilliant long-lasting color. If it were not for the commissioners of
the work — the powerful Medicis — this shy nude, rendered at such a scale, would certainly
have been denounced. More Florentine paintings appeared on the screen in rapid succession.
Then, her slides transported her students to Rome. There, in the early 1500’s, artist-geniuses
finally came into their own. They wanted to be seen. Artists had declared that patrons should no
longer see them as just craftsmen. They, along with the poets, should be seen as members of the
intelligencia.
“Does anyone doubt that this is the work of a genius,” she said. “This glorious fresco is
‘The Creation of Adam’ by Michelangelo.”
The entire class stared up at the work. After a minute of silence Anne motioned for the
florescent lights to return overhead. An eruption of applause followed that continued until Anne
asked her students to quiet down.

“Who would like to tell the class,” Anne asked, “what paintings they saw this summer?”
“I was thrilled to see the Mona Lisa again,” Mary answered. “I always find her eyes so
penetrating.”
“Not me, I was really disappointed,” a male student, unknown to Anne, said. “It was so
small. Covered in bulletproof glass. And the crowd was sneaking flash photos. I bought the
poster in the gift shop. It gives you a better sense of his sfumato technique.”
“I agree. You can learn a lot from reproductions,” Anne said, impressed with the boy’s
observation. “Say more about the sfumato.”
“You know, blurred edges,” he said. “You actually see the forms dissolving because of
the continuous interaction between light and shade.”
“What did you think, Professor?” Suzanne asked, her tone a denouncement of the boy’s
arrogance. “Were you disappointed when you saw it for the first time?”
Blood surged through Anne’s body as if it were water pumped to the surface from a deep
aquifer. Her mouth grew dry. Prior to this decade most of her students had been too poor to
travel. They hadn’t assumed she’d stood in front of every famous European masterpiece. But this
crop of students did. And she hadn’t dissuaded them of this notion. Her image, now larger than
her life had been, could easily be dismantled by the truth. Why hadn’t she corrected her students’
assumptions of her ability to travel? When she had the chance? Her omission festered inside her
like the pain lingering after the prick of a thorn.
“Well, most people…” She swallowed what little saliva she had left. “Most people are
disappointed when they finally see the Mona Lisa. The majority of viewers spend at most only
15 seconds looking at it. How many of you have seen it?”

4

Las  Meninas:  The  Alchemy  of  a  Life  
  

She  looked  around  the  room.  Martha  Hernandez  had  slipped  into  the  back  row.  

Anne’s  pulse  quickened.  She  wasn’t  prepared  to  converse  about  Las  Meninas,  Velasquez,  the  
Prado,  Madrid,  Spain,  any  of  it.  Why  had  the  girl  shown  up  this  morning?  Her  eyes  landed  
back  on  the  boy  who’d  provoked  the  controversy.  
“Over half of you travelled quite a long way for such a short view.” She pointed towards
the boy. “Like this gentleman here observed, reproductions can be necessary to really study a
painting’s details.”
  

A  few  more  students  described  their  visits  to  the  Tate,  Musee  d’Orsay,  and  Galleria  

Borghese.  Anne  made  eye  contact  with  Martha  encouraging  her  to  say  something,  possibly  
something  Anne  could  riff  off  later.  Martha  offered  nothing.  She  had  rarely  participated  in  
class  discussions.  Anne  couldn’t  even  recall  Martha’s  voice.  Yet,  Anne  recalled  her  insightful  
papers  and  exams  had  contained  a  zeal  for  the  subject  matter.    
  

“Would  anyone,”  Anne  said,  “like  to  tell  us  about  their  summer  and  the  paintings  

they  didn’t  see?”    
The class laughed. She waved her right hand and with a twist of her wrist dismissed
them. A line formed in front of Anne’s desk. Anne signed the last student override slip and
looked up. Martha had moved to the front of the classroom and now sat in a first row desk. What
could be so urgent?
***
“Sorry to be late,” Martha said. “My shift ends after this class starts. Can you stay?”
“I have a few minutes,” Anne said, feeling the moisture that had accumulated on her bra
line and under her arms.

5

Las  Meninas:  The  Alchemy  of  a  Life  
If Martha wanted to talk about the painting, Anne could oblige her. If Martha wanted to
compare notes on their experiences in front of the painting, Anne had choices. She could tell her
she had not seen the painting, get it over with, live with the fall out. Or pretend that she had. But
she had never outright lied about her lack of travel to Europe. At 75, she didn’t want to start now.
She stared at the tomato sauce splotches staining Martha’s white blouse, just below the
collar. Splattered pattern like a Jackson Pollock.
“Where are you working?” Anne said.
“Taco Bell on E. 12th Street. I just started,” Martha said. “I lost my nanny job. After we
returned from Spain, the husband was transferred just like that.”
She snapped her fingers. Then, Martha folded her arms and pressed her lips together. She
looked ready to get down to business. Anne wouldn’t let her.
“Why didn’t you tell the class you were in Spain when I asked?” Anne twisted the straps
of her purse around her fingers.
“I’m not officially enrolled in the class. And I wanted to share more than the painting,”
Martha said, her right leg springing up and down. “How the trip changed my life.”
At about that age Anne had been changed too. Not by Madrid but by New York City. She
had loved being surrounded by all that creative energy. Her nighttime dreams had been filled
with swirls of color, and she woke up to the smell of oil paint and turpentine. From her mattress
on her loft’s floor she could evaluate her previous night’s work in the morning light. Some of her
work had been good. She would roll on her back and examine her stained fingertips. She had
shared the loft with two other girls, both painters. Did they still paint? Or did they give up like
she had?

6

Las  Meninas:  The  Alchemy  of  a  Life  
“Before I went to Spain,” Martha said. “I had planned to become a nurse. But because of
your classes, the museums, seeing the original paintings, I’ve decided to major in art history.”
Art history? Hadn’t Martha heard what Obama had said about the impracticality of
studying art history in this job market? Anne’s professional organizations had flooded her with
requests to sign petitions, which explained to the President how art history majors are trained to
think critically — a necessary skill in this job market. Martha couldn’t be thinking of teaching,
could she? There were so few jobs and the pay abysmal. Perhaps she could be talked into
becoming a curator, restorer, or appraiser.
“What do you plan to do with an art history degree?” Anne said, resting her clasped
hands on the desk.
  

“I’d  love  to  teach  just  like  you,”  Martha  said,  imitating  Anne’s  hand  gesture.  

  

A  flush  of  warmth  spread  in  Anne’s  chest  like  salve  rubbed  on  a  wound.    Martha  

loved  paintings  because  of  her.  Yet  Anne,  at  Martha’s  age,  could  never  have  imagined  
teaching  —  she’d  wanted  to  be  a  successful  artist.    After  college,  she’d  tried  to  make  a  living  
as  a  painter.  Her  professors  thought  she  had  talent.  She  even  showed  her  work  in  a  SOHO  
gallery.  But  when  her  work  didn’t  sell  right  away,  she’d  panicked.  She  was  26  and  her  
parents  said  the  longer  she  stayed  the  less  likely  she  would  marry.    There  were  several  
eligible  young  men  they  wanted  to  introduce  to  her.  They  insisted  she  could  paint  while  her  
children  were  asleep  or  in  school.  The  insecurity  of  living  an  artist’s  life  led  her  to  pack  her  
things  and  return  to  Iowa.  And  over  the  years  the  thought  of  standing  in  front  of  these  
masterpieces  in  the  great  art  houses  throughout  Europe  made  her  anxious.  Reminders  of  
the  passion  she’d  squelched.  The  talent  wasted.        

7

Las  Meninas:  The  Alchemy  of  a  Life  
  

“The  school  cut  back  on  my  financial  aid,”  Martha  said.  “My  work  schedule  interferes  

with  most  of  the  classes  I  need.  So,  I  was  wondering  if  I  could  take  an  independent  study  
with  you.”    
Martha drew some crumpled forms out of her backpack and stepped forward. Anne
pursed her lips and resisted shaking her head “no.” She had never allowed herself to take on that
extra work. Earlier in her career, while raising her family, she didn’t have the time. Now she was
afraid the intimacy would lead to the truth about her lack of travel, her life limited by anxiety,
and that teaching was not the career she had imagined for herself.
“Let me think about it.” Anne pressed the papers into her binder. “Give me your phone
number, and I’ll be in touch.”
Martha wrote her number down and handed it to Anne.
“Please say yes,” Martha pleaded. “It would mean the world to me to work one-on-one
with you.”
Anne’s throat tightened at the thought of disappointing her.
***
Anne made tea and spread butter on toast in the kitchen of her 100-year old farmhouse.
Not the most nutritious dinner. Then she took the tray up the stairs, intending to enjoy the setting
sun in her studio. That’s why they’d bought this house. The previous owner had been an artist,
and had been genuinely pleased to pass the studio on to her. But Anne had never really painted
seriously here. Now she used the studio as a sitting room. The view from the studio’s large
windows soothed her.
She walking past her husband’s office and peered in. Nothing in the room had been
removed since he’d died. She had tried to clean out his closet once, but had given up when

8

Las  Meninas:  The  Alchemy  of  a  Life  
cassette tapes unraveled like hospital tubes gone haywire, baseball caps invoked memories of
chemo induced baldness, and errant lengths of fishing wire secured a snug cage around her heart.
She had stuffed it all back into the closet and hadn’t opened that wooden door since.
The sun had set by the time she entered her studio. She reached for the light and noticed
the package from her son she’d brought up there yesterday but had forgotten to open. She could
tell it was books. Martha’s postcard laid on top of it.
It was no wonder Martha had been so captivated by Las Meninas. A grand painting that
captured an intimate moment in court life. But the image was not as simple as it seemed at first
glance. Martha was right; it was a brilliant self-portrait.
Velasquez had depicted the artist in his studio. He’d wanted to be seen. But he was
making a statement about painting as well. The strokes of white on his shirtsleeve drew one’s
eye to the paint palette, as if the artist said, “Look at me. See what I can do.” He highlighted the
alchemy of paint itself. His strokes both dissolved into nothingness and created a new reality,
rich with detail and texture. Paint brushed one way portrayed an emotion. Another way revealed
a different emotion. Velasquez’ message was clear — he was not merely a craftsman, but a
gentleman.
King Philip the IV awarded Velasquez knighthood several years after he’d finished this
painting. The Red Cross of the Order of Santiago now on his chest, presumably painted by the
King himself after the painter’s death. How the artist must have felt to realize his dream.
Anne, at a younger age, had wanted to be seen too. But the attention she received from
her early works felt unnatural. She had been taught to be humble and avoid the spotlight. Her ego
to be resistant to praise.

9

Las  Meninas:  The  Alchemy  of  a  Life  
She set the postcard aside. Her fingernail lifted the tape off the brown package wrapping.
The stiff paper folded back to reveal a set of travel books labeled Barcelona, Madrid, and
Toledo. Her son Stuart wrote, “I’m having a show in Barcelona this summer. Please come with
us.” An invitation to Spain? What strange and delightful timing. She flipped through the book
and found Las Meninas. Was she capable of travelling to her son’s show and onto Madrid to see
this painting?
***
A week had passed and Anne’s son, Stuart, and Martha awaited answers. Answers, which
could bring both travel and companionship into her life. In the dark bedroom Anne wrestled with
her blankets. Her breath labored. Moisture soaked her nightgown. Her body shook from chills.
Chest pains. A heart attack? Call 911. She sat up in bed, throwing off her covers. She rubbed her
numb legs. She only heard the sounds of her rapid heartbeat, a stomach growl. The cold tea and
hardened toast had remained in her studio uneaten. No one knew if she ate or not. No one would
know if she didn’t wake up. At least not for days. Breathe. Breathe.
Over the years her doctor wanted to prescribe medication for her anxieties but she didn’t
believe in taking drugs. And lately he suggested other pills for what he called her “depression.”
She had watched her husband suffer with a long illness. Now he was gone. Wasn’t she entitled to
a little grief?
The pain subsided. Her heart slowed. Just another panic attack? It had been awhile since
she had one this intense. As a young artist anxiety had prevented her from pursuing her artistic
dreams. As she aged the anxious feelings occurred more frequently and lasted longer. Her
husband’s hospital stays during his long illness brought them on. After he died panic attacks

10

Las  Meninas:  The  Alchemy  of  a  Life  
often led her to cancel outings with friends all too frequently. Until they stopped calling. She had
agreed to prescription sleep aids, though. Her medicine cabinet contained a bottle.
Eventually, slivers of sunlight lit her bedroom. The pills had done their magic. She stared
up at the ceiling’s shadows. Could things change at her age?
Gestures were being made towards her, gestures that wouldn’t be repeated if she turned
them down. She would take it one step at a time. She would invite Martha to her home for tea to
discuss her proposed independent study. A first.
***
Anne heard the knock. Martha was right on time. She opened the door. Martha entered
her living room. Things bought at tag sales over the past forty years filled every space. Martha
took a few steps forward, and each time she focused on a new object, her eyes lit up.
“So much art,” Martha mused. “You’ve created your own museum.”
“Except you can touch everything,” Anne said. “And very little has any value.”
Martha rubbed the marble bust, fingered the Egyptian tapestry hanging on the wall, and
laughed at the life-size clown puppets sitting on the red velvet settee. Martha seemed stunned by
the yard sale bounty.
“There’s a Stickley bench and the lamp’s a Tiffany,” Anne said. “I’m in the process of
authenticating some other things. Most things I picked up for my own amusement.”
“Wow, a real Stickley bench.” Martha ran her finger through its dust.
“The dust increases its worth,” Anne said, embarrassed by her obvious inattention to
housekeeping.
Martha laughed, her ponytail bouncing up and down.
“How can you tell if it’s a real Tiffany?” Martha asked.

11

Las  Meninas:  The  Alchemy  of  a  Life  
Real? As in not an imitation and not on the pages of a book? Another challenge to
authenticity. Was she becoming paranoid?
“Besides the Tiffany Studios New York stamp?” Anne said. “When you turn it on, the
colors of the glass actually change. Go ahead. See for yourself.”
Martha reached for the turn switch on the lamp’s brass base. The intense colors of the
floral pattern glowed in the dimly lit room.
“Beautiful,” Martha said. “The room needed a little light.”
The lamp’s glow caused the oriental carpet pattern below to spring to life. Why didn’t
Anne enjoy her things more often instead of feeling overwhelmed by them?
“Are you ready for tea?” Anne said. “I’ll show you the rest of the house after we’ve
finished.”
“Sure,” Martha said. “That’d be great.”
Martha followed her into the kitchen. Anne motioned for her to sit down on one of the
rattan kitchen chairs and lit the burner under the kettle on the stove. Two mismatched
Wedgewood cups rested on chipped saucers already in place on the thick walnut kitchen table.
She reached into the tin canister and pulled out two bags of Earl Grey tea.
“Where do you live?” Anne asked.
“Near Drake,” Martha answered.
Anne expected that response. It was one of the poorer sections of town.
“Tell me about your family,” Anne said.
“I’m the fourth of seven,” Martha answered. “The third girl. First to go to college. My
older sisters are married with young kids.” Contempt in Martha’s voice suggested determination

12

Las  Meninas:  The  Alchemy  of  a  Life  
to do something different with her life. Then her eyes dropped. “My older brother was killed in
Iraq three years ago.”
“I’m so sorry.” Anne rose to the whistle of the teakettle. Martha knew loss too.
“How old were you when you married?” Martha asked.
“Thirty,” Anne said, pouring the steaming water into the waiting cups. “Old for my
generation. Why?”
“I don’t think I want to marry,” Martha said, dunking her tea bag up and down. “I
definitely don’t want kids.”
Did Martha feel she had to choose between family and career the way Anne had? Surely
times had changed.
“What did you do before you married?” Martha asked.
“I stayed in New York after graduating from college,” Anne said. “I was a painter.”
“I didn’t know you were an artist as well,” Martha said, taking her first sip.
“I was but not now,” Anne said. “I haven’t really painted consistently since I returned to
Iowa. I started to, then I had kids. I thought I would when the kids grew older. But then my
husband became ill.”
The familiar excuses rolled easily off her tongue. Her words pierced her skin like arrows
hitting their targets. How long would she blame others for derailing her dreams, when she was
the one who had gotten in her own way? Anne winced.
“How’s your husband now?” Martha asked.
“He died,” Anne said. “Two years ago. But I’m still unable to paint.”
“I’m so sorry,” Martha said. “It takes time to get used to the new normal. My mom’s still
depressed about my brother’s death. Sometimes I feel like I’ve lost her too.”

13

Las  Meninas:  The  Alchemy  of  a  Life  
Anne nodded. Did she appear depressed to Martha?
“My brother dying so young,” Martha said, “makes me more determined than ever to do
something with my life. He wanted to be a pilot. Sometimes I feel like he’s pushing me to fulfill
my dreams since he couldn’t.”
A tingling started at the base of Anne’s neck. Anne wanted to fulfill her dreams too. Not
exactly a push but something stirring.
“Would you,” Anne said, “like to see the rest of the house?”
“Sure,” Martha said, placing her cup in the sink.
“There’s not much to see,” Anne said. “But I have a lovely studio.”
***
The studio looked magical with its twelve-foot high ceiling and large glass windows. The
setting sunrays streaming through the windows bounced off the metal easels forming light
streaks on the floor. The metal rings on the paintbrushes sparkled.
“It’s a wonderful room,” Martha said. “So much light. You could easily paint a 10’ by 9’
canvas. Like Las Meninas in here.”
Didn’t Martha understand there’s nothing easy about painting? Anne ignored the
comment. Martha fingered the paint tubes squeezed into diverse shapes spread across a
rectangular table covered with butcher-block paper. Several threadbare oriental rugs lay on the
hardwood floor.
Anne walked towards the west-facing window and felt the sun on her face. Reds, golds,
and orange leaves glowed in the setting sun. Her favorite time of day.
“Are you going to Spain?” Martha asked.
“Why would you ask that?” Anne said, turning around, startled.

14

Las  Meninas:  The  Alchemy  of  a  Life  
“The travel books here on the table,” Martha said. “Barcelona, Madrid, Toledo.”
Anne had forgotten she had left them there. She started back across the room towards the
pile of books. The warmth drained from Anne’s skin.
“I haven’t decided,” Anne said. “My son has invited me to go with his family this
summer.”
“I’d love to go back to Spain,” Martha said, flipping through one. “How many times have
you been to Europe, Professor Carroll?”
Anne froze. She wanted to say, too many to count and be done with it. But she had never
been asked such a forthright question about her travel history, and she’d never lied outright about
her lack of travel. Not since a lie had changed so much.
During her freshman year at NYU her professor had asked the class where they came
from. The students answered, “the Boston Area,” “Westchester,” “Short Hills, NJ,” and right
here “In Manhattan.” She, embarrassed to say she was from Des Moines, Iowa, lied and said,
“Darien, CT.” A place she’d never been to but where her roommate came from. From that lie she
was forced to pretend to be someone she was not the rest of her time in school. She never went
home during that time so that didn’t give her away. But she clearly lacked the sophistication of
an East Coast native not to mention the accent. They thought her shy. Now back in Iowa she had
inadvertently created another false persona, this time by omission.
“Martha, please sit down.” Anne’s cracking voice sounded like one of her husband’s
scratched LPs. Anne gestured towards a stool and then lowered herself down onto a folding
chair. Frown lines appeared on Martha’s forehead and her fingers pressed her lips.
“Did I say something to upset you?” Martha said.

15

Las  Meninas:  The  Alchemy  of  a  Life  
“I’m afraid there’s been a misconception among my students.” Anne blinked her
moisture-filled eyes. “I’ve not been to Europe. Never seen any original Masters’ paintings
hanging there.”
“What do you mean?” Martha asked, jumping off the stool. “You’ve been to the Prado.
And to the Louvre, right?”
Anne shook her head no. She willed herself to look up in order to maintain eye contact
with Martha’s widening eyes.
“People have just assumed I’d been there. But instead,” Anne gestured towards the booklined shelves, “I’ve managed to acquire quite a large art book collection. Gifts, really. Many
from former students and, of course, my children. I’ve studied these intensely.”
Martha squinted at Anne. Anne could see Martha’s perception of her changing. Anne’s
carefully constructed image blurring and dissolving. Martha paced the length of the studio. She
clenched her fists. The sound of her Keds slapping the floor increased the tension.
Anne waited for the rendered judgment. The layers she’d applied over time peeling away.
Whatever esteem she held — lowered. She shivered from exposure. Not only would she remain
alone, but she’d be more vulnerable than ever. Her deceit, the subject of discussions on campus
for years to come.
“You’ve got be kidding. The way you describe the paintings.” Martha’s face turned red.
“I just assumed… Can’t believe you haven’t actually seen the originals.”
“I never intended to mislead anyone.” Anne bit her bottom lip. “I know I’m a
disappointment to you as I am to myself.”
“But in class when you said looking at such and such a painting. I took it to mean when
you looked at the painting.” Martha pointed at her. “When you actually stood in front of it.” Her

16

Las  Meninas:  The  Alchemy  of  a  Life  
hands dropped to her sides. She shook her head side to side. “But you haven’t. I’m trying to wrap
my mind around this.”
“I really have been content studying the reproductions all these years.” That certainly
was true when she started teaching and had no choice. But this rang slightly false now.
“Your slides are great,” Martha said. “But they don’t compare to the experience of
seeing the original. Las Meninas pulled me in as I stood there. I stood in awe. Time stood still. I
wrote you I had goose bumps. You can’t get that experience from a book.”
Anne stood, picked up the Madrid book and flipped through it. Again the color plate of
the “Las Meninas” caught her eye. Could she be pulled in and feel timelessness standing in front
of that enormous painting or would her anxiety limit her sense of wonder?
Anne drifted over to her paintings and reached for a half-completed portrait of a young
woman stacked against the studio’s wall, and brought it into the light. The young woman’s eyes
radiated in a way she hadn’t seen in the shade. Another painting drew her attention. A landscape
where the studio’s sunlight revealed the water, luminous and flowing, reflecting bits of light
created by heavy pigmentation. These were better than she’d remembered. Seeing original
masterpieces suddenly mattered less than knowing if she could paint again. Could she now
handle being seen?
Anne placed a large blank canvas on an easel. Then she nestled a paintbrush between her
right thumb and forefinger and rested the paint palette in the crook of her opposite elbow. Her
shoulders arched back, she placed her left leg in front of her right mimicking Velasquez’ stance.
“Are you okay, Professor Carroll?” Martha whispered.
“Fine,” Anne said, swiveling her neck to look at her. Her smile, grateful. She, then,
turned back to the canvas.

17


