Ben woke in dullness: another day of trial. Clothes lay
scattered on the bed and floor and oh, it took effort to fish
something out. A tatty piece of paper tacked onto the minifridge door fluttered in the fan’s breeze.
I will be somebody today.
I will do something today.
I choose.
He sighed. Today, like the past few, he could choose to
be nothing but a passive puppet facing endless useless
questions. At least with the trial he wouldn’t have to work
writing endless lines of code and at least today he wasn’t
first up to be questioned but that meant he’d have to watch
that skinny Adam brat brag about his relationship with Damien
Payne, the hipster prophet.
Adam played to his audience, “we were getting ready for
the event and Damien was staring into the mirror with…
disgust, lust? Boredom, anxiety…
‘I’ll burn my chip,’ Damien said to me.
‘You’ll re-implant in a month,’ I replied; he was on his
fifth.
‘It’s just getting worse all the time, you know… have you
seen the originality apps, they’re reee-diculous,’ he turned
away from the mirror to look at me.
‘Spaz, Munster…those?’
‘Did you read about how they work? They use Google’s
behaviour database with all the gestures, manners of speech,
posture, gait etc, like everything… and then tweak you so that
you’re just far enough off the average to be noticeably
eccentric. The more people upload those apps the more the
average will adjust and the database updates. The tweaks will
get more eccentric, dramatic or more frequent, whatever, it
will turn us all into super freaks.’
I looked at him properly; he had a semi hard on.
‘I just have it for the practical apps,’ I said.
He stared bleakly into the mirror.
‘And besides,’ I continued, ‘if you burn and then change
your mind you won’t be able to afford one at the moment and
then you’ll be stuck outside with the hippies and vegans.’
He sighed, ‘it’s all so futile. I mean, I know that’s the
point, but really… sometimes you feel it.’
‘It’s the zeitgeist,’ I said.
At which he laughed, ‘I am the zeitgeist,’ he fingered
the scars he’d cut across his taut pectorals: long lines from
shoulder to lower ribs. Ripped like a wolf’s claw. ‘I’m a
parody of myself.’
‘There are one thousand and fourteen new lines under
#HipsterProphet. All buzz about tonight.’ I slapped him,
‘decide what you’re wearing.’
‘I’ll wear nothing. Cover me in dark glitter.’
‘It’ll be cold on the way.’
‘I’ll wear a coat. I feel naked so I should be naked.’”
The lawyer ordered the video to start.
‘I am the fucking gull bobbing on flotsam,’ Damien’s face
twisted passionately above the crowd, ‘the sky is futile. I
will be seasick, bobbing down until you are above and I am
below. I see dead things floating in the waters beneath and
the flotsam is my anchor to the surface. We will all be upside
down and the sky will only ever be a reflection distorted on
the surface. I bob deeper down. Any of you could be me if you
would open your eyes in the fiery passionless salt water and
see the futility. In the age of cynicism, of no-hope, we fall
to hell before seeing light. The sky is gone and only the

depths are illuminated. We see the reflected sky on the
surface now only through glimmers that remind us there was
something once other than hell. Now we must burn just to see
anything at all.’
Damien raised his illegal cigarette to the air and in the
silence many imagined the smouldering. He clawed at the skin
over his temples with his sharpened nails and brought the
cigarette to his chip.
The Lawyer shuddered. He’d seen excruciating
documentaries about burning. There was vomiting, fever,
disorientation. It was done in torture— enough said. His hand
involuntarily rose up to his own left temple and caressed the
skin there, his other hand, trembling.
The judge sent reassurances; his eyes snapped to her warm
face gazing down like an all knowing mother on the court
below. He could feel an attack coming. His whole body was an
itch and he felt sweaty and dissatisfied, lonely, angry,
isolated and disgusted. Hi, I’m Ethan and I’m an app-aholic.
He ached to deactivate the ad-wall that would bring twin
disgust and relief. Apps for loneliness, boredom, insecurity,
anxiety, futility it was all there just waiting for him, to
flood him with warmth and happiness and relief and
entertainment and love.
She was looking at him. She didn’t even have to send him
a message. I know, I know, he sent back instantly. Don’t
worry; we will win this one.
He needed to win this one. They should have had the last
one in the bag. Open and shut case. It should have been. The
young man had uploaded two separate apps, one of those life
game apps that planted designed elements into your sensory
perceptions and gave you a virtual gun or something so you’d
walk around the real world shooting imaginary monsters or
aliens or something stupid on your way to work. The other app

/ Terror, Terror / 4
the young man had uploaded had been one of those embellishment
apps that coloured life with your own imagination,
transforming what you see into objects more exciting, more
fantastic. Well you can guess the insanity, combining these
two apps. The young lad had grabbed a kitchen knife and,
(probably) thinking the kitchen knife a game knife, plunged it
repeatedly into what he (probably) thought was a game
creature, really his embellished girlfriend.
With the negligence in the app interactivity they would
have finally managed to win the case for a regulatory body for
these out of control corporations. The trial of the decade.
What could you do? Hi I’m Ethan and I’m an app-aholic. A fuck
up. Now this one was going to be the trial of the decade.
Forget the last; we’ll get them this time for sure.
She was looking at him. Judge needed prosecutor to focus.
They were questioning Ben now. She wanted him to take
over the questioning; he asked formally and she gave it to
him.
#
Ethan the Prosecutor: Let’s start at the club.
Defence Bot: Let’s stay at the house first. Did you get
up immediately that morning?
God Damn. The defence bot took the questioning straight
away.
Ben: No.
Defence Bot: You lay in bed?
Why were they hanging back on peripheral details?
Ben: Yes.
Defence Bot: What were you thinking about?
Ben: It takes me a while to get out of bed.
That’s the human condition.
Defence Bot: What were you thinking?
Ben: (Mumbling) nothing. It takes me a while to decide I

/ Terror, Terror / 5
want to go about my day.
Goddamn bots programmed as sadists.
Defence Bot: And what did you decide?
Ben: It was too late to do any work but I thought maybe
I’d go to The Broken Fish after all, that maybe this would be
the time.
Defence Bot: The Broken Fish?
Ben: Club night, once a month kind of thing. Pretty
quirky. You have to know about it to know about it.
Defence Bot: The time that?
Ben: The time that?
Defence Bot: You were saying that maybe this would be the
time.
Ben: The time that my boring life gets swept away and I
run into the sunset holding hands with someone smart and
beautiful. I don’t know. Why does everyone else go there? To
laugh at our own absurdity or something.
Defence Bot: Ok. So what did you do next?
Ben: I sat in front of the mirror for a while.
Defence Bot: What were you doing in front of the mirror?
Ben: Thinking.
Defence Bot: About?
Ben. My stupid fat face. The bombings. Inflation.
Declining real wages. The disappearance of a conscious working
class, disenfranchisement of society, alienation, general loss
of significance. Mostly just my stupid fat face.
Defence Bot: You indulged yourself.
Ethan pulsed a mental trigger. Defence was obviously
leading and projecting as well as bullying the poor boy. She
gave him the questioning immediately.
Prosecutor: Let’s talk about what happened at the club.
Did they have any prerequisite apps at the door?
Ben: Yes, I had to turn wild on.

/ Terror, Terror / 6
Prosecutor: And could you describe wild for us please.
Ben: It’s a basic disinhibiter, run of the mill.
Prosector: Did you have your ad-wall turned on?
Ben: No, they made you turn it off when you enter.
Prosecutor: at what point did you receive your first ad?
Ben: Straight away.
Prosecutor: And can you identify the product?
Ben: Yep, it was ident-i-kit
Can we play the ad in the juries receivers?
BE ANYONE TONIGHT. BE EVERYONE.
Prosecutor: And you uploaded the app?
Ben: Yes.
Prosecutor: Can you define it’s effects?
Ben: You can flip your POV to anyone in the club or even
just see from the security camera perspective. The interface
is clumsy. I remember thinking I could have designed something
better.
Prosecutor: And do you just see from someone else’s point
of view?
Ben: It’s like an emotional connection, some sort of
empathic link. Most of that’s probably just projection or
contextualisation of a flood of new information. Psychology
does the work probably; it’s a simple app judging by its
interface.
Defence Bot: Ben…
Damn it.
… Do you suffer from any medical
conditions?
Ben (shaken): What? Like what?
Defence Bot: Psychological conditions. If we were to call
up your medical record would we find any psychological medical
conditions diagnosed?
Ben: I’m in the process of disputing that.

/ Terror, Terror / 7
Defence Bot: You were very keene to talk about all of
your psychological disorders in your own trial. I’m sure we
could bring up the records of your own defence bot on how you
weren’t responsible for your actions.
Ben: I’m diagnosed dissociative fugue.
Defence Bot: And with a high risk of?
Ben: High risk of suicide.
Defence Bot: Oh just one more question, did you accept
the terms and conditions for the two apps you activated that
night?
Did they really think that was going to work now?
Prosecutor: Ben, did you use the Ident-i-kit app to
identify with anyone in particular at the club that night?
He nodded.
Prosecutor: Was it Damien Payne?
Ben: It was.
Defence Bot: Ben…
God damn them. If I could take an axe to their flimsy
bodies and whatever corporate wanker programmed them.
Defence Bot: Why did you choose to identify with the
Hipster Prophet?
Ben: I don’t know.
Defence Bot: Why Damien Payne?
Ben: I don’t know. He was there, up on the stage like,
glowing in glitter. Everyone was looking at him. He was, well.
I guess he’s just the first person I saw. I’ve seen him
before.
Defence Bot: So you would say there was a sexual element
in your selection.
Prosecutor: Can we play the video for an objective
record?
“…we see the reflected sky on the surface now only

/ Terror, Terror / 8
through glimmers that remind us there was once something other
than hell. Now we must burn just to see anything at all.”
Damien lifts his cigarette to his temple.
Prosecutor: Freeze it there. You were linked to Damien at
the moment he burned his chip?
Ben: Yes.
Prosecutor: And what did you feel?
Ben: Horrible. It was painful and I was totally inside
his head. I forgot who I was — all I had was the pain and I
felt like everything I had been feeling up to then, everything
from the morning, everything from every morning converged and
I wanted to make it stop.
Prosecutor: The pain?
Ben: Everything. I wanted the universe to stop. I wanted
consciousness to stop. I… I wanted to stop.
Ben was shaking.
Prosecutor: Ok, that’s enough. Unfreeze the video.
The jury watched in silence with Damien bent over,
apparently from pain, his head pointed upwards, his eyes shut
tight, his lips curled in a savage smile and from the crowd a
figure bounded out, leapt over, and landed atop. The jury
recognised Ben, his face also distorted by agony and
confusion, and they watched as Ben pulled Damien’s head up by
the hair with his left hand and beat his skull over and again
with his right. Screams. The crowd came unstuck but not before
Ben landed the fatal blow. The image froze and all eyes turned
to the real life Ben weeping in the stall.
Now for the secret weapon and we’ll have them by the
binaries. Watch their smugness short circuit when we find out
why the bouncers weren’t there to stop it.
Defence Bot: The man that killed the Hipster Prophet.
Maybe our media colleagues will make a movie out of you.

/ Terror, Terror / 9
Why had he lost the questioning? He asked for it back.
Defence Bot: There were more than a hundred other people
on Ident-i-kit, many of whom were linked to Damien Payne but
they didn’t shove his nose up his brain.
What was happening? She looked at him blankly. She
doesn’t know. She can’t give it to me.
Defence Bot: But one unstable human shoves Damien Payne’s
nose up his brain and the social justice warriors and activist
judges and freedom haters pounce.
Prosecutor: What’s going on?
Judge: What’s going on?
Remain calm. You will soon be attended by representatives
of the National Justice Authority inline with the Secured
Freedom and Justice Act.

Please do not move from your seats,

remain calm.
‘The Secured Freedom and Justice Act,’ the judge rose
from her seat, ‘can you amplify on that?’
The Secured Freedom and Justice Act was passed and
approved at 18:00 today.
‘Three minutes ago,’ she said.
All registered participants in the national law courts
must, on entering any court of law, show proof that all newly
required law apps are uploaded and up to date. All entrants to
a court of law must pass further security screening tests or
be denied entry. Furthermore if any trial be deemed to
jeopardise the freedom of economic activity or future profits
of any corporate person that trial shall be recognised as a
threat to national security. This legislation has been

/ Terror, Terror / 10
backdated one month and is in vigil on this trial. Please do
not move from your seats, remain calm. You will soon be
attended by representatives of the National Justice Authority.
#
The judge looked out over her last moments as a judge.
Ben crumpled in his seat; her faithful old lawyer, trembling;
the jury, shaken. Her heart was broken and she was moved to
speak, ‘If what I think is happening is happening then I beg
you all to think carefully about the next five minutes. I
suspect it will all be over by then. Whatever awaits us, we
are about to be taken into the loom of history. This will be
no consolation, or justification or satisfaction, but it’s
bald bare truth so let us comport ourselves well. I beg you
now stay sober while we wait because, as Sappho once said,
someone will remember us, even in another time.’
The lawyer’s head rested back, eyes up to the ceiling and
open, his mouth also open. A flood of visuals and feelings
wormed through his brain. The sweet relief of app-emotions
displaced emptiness; he opened as many as he could. The
ceiling disappeared and a starry sky opened up. His body went
limp and his eyes closed as his mind retracted into mazes of
apps and interlocking apps. Ben looked at him, his jaw
slightly open, his eyes glazed over and Ben knew that the
lawyer was in another world now, happy in his own way. I could
do it too.
He looked at the Jury, stuck to their seats. They didn’t
know what to do. Their script had been torn and now they had
no role but to sit in terror. And the judge, looking at him,
looking at everyone. Someone will remember us. Strange words.
Comport ourselves well. Odd ending.
Ben could feel the hum of the halogens above enter his
veins. The whole room hummed with horror. He felt, with
terror, that he was the centre of the universe and that there

/ Terror, Terror / 11
was no one as alive as he. In the soulless recording eyes of
the bots lining the walls their humanity was captured like an
enemy is captured.
Ben could feel the seat beneath, one of those with ridges
formed to the human shape poking up awkwardly. It was formed
for someone larger than him. He could open up an app to dull
the nerves in his buttocks, send the pain away. But then if he
did that then why not open another to stop that horrible hum,
dim the uncomfortable white light, fade out the disconcerting
bots from vision, rub out the nervous jury, transform the
courtroom to a beach, replace fear with relaxation or joy,
stimulate feelings of companionship, of satisfaction from
accomplishment, of joy, ecstasy, unleash the imagination, fly
off in a rocket to see the planets, the stars and leave this
cold, humming, ass poking reality in tatters.
Ben shivered, nauseous. He hated the chair beneath and
that horrible hum but he needed these things right now; they
kept him leashed to the world as it was. It’s just a body in
an uncomfortable chair. A disgusting stupid body that will go
home, fall asleep in that tediously dull bed of horrors, wake
up, see itself in the mirror and go to work.
Another wave of nausea gripped him. That was it. He
didn’t want to get out of just this; he wanted out of
everything. You cannot just get back into that bed and wake up
one more morning there, look into that god damn mirror and go
to work.
An idea began working quietly around the creative paths
of his brain. I could write an app. They’ll let me go; I’m
just a witness.
My own soft hands battered Damien to the point where he
could no longer function as a human body. He will never say
anything new. Like characters carved onto a stone he is set
and can only slowly slip away in millennia of wind or rain.

/ Terror, Terror / 12
But he can never be.
Futility, he used to say. But can you say you ever really
tried Damien? Enough? Can there ever be an enough? You know
what’s going on here. You know what the judge and lawyer were
trying to do. Someone will remember us, even in another age.
Damn her. She’s right. The human spirit should not surrender
so easily, it should fight with its claws at that which
existentially threatens it. Each toothful bite, cut and tear
an affirmation of soul alive. To rise from the flabby mass and
say no. I will not be the voiceless they eating cardboard and
spewing out the same pop-app words day after day. To be alive
is to burn, to act, to fundamentally be. Not to simper in
one’s room, cold and pathetic, apped up and off, getting up,
getting dressed, working, shitting, shopping, sleeping,
surrounded by millions of apped-up zombies doing exactly the
same. I live in a horror story. The endless cycle of words
without meaning is horror. Horror.
I will be somebody today.
I will do something today.
I choose.
He laughed at his piece of paper fluttering on his
fridge.
I could write an app that would change the world — they
would call it terrorism. I would have to hide. Leave my flat.
And what did you ever really do Damien Payne? Someone will
remember us, even in another age. And what will I have done?
Ben was acutely aware that the judge’s eyes were locked
on him when the doors came crashing open.
#
Adam spotted them in one of the smaller rooms upstairs
perched on the window ledge smoking illegally, elegantly, and
chatting coolly. Brother and sister. Had to be. Beautiful,

/ Terror, Terror / 13
long faces with lovely little noses between flat cheekbones
that bounced as they laughed. The brother caught Adam’s eye
just for a moment.
‘There’s space in that room,’ Adam nudged Tabitha.
She glanced in and replied into his ear, ‘The one by the
window, no?’
Adam couldn’t hold back an embarrassed smirk, ‘let’s just
go in.’
They ordered drinks and stood near the end of the bar,
stealing glances and giggling quietly under their breath. The
other pair adjusted their postures casually, almost
accidentally and yet not, and the focus of their gaze turned
more from outside to inside the room. Adam and the brother
locked eyes a few times more, smiles playing at their mouths,
slightly bigger each time. Adam checked his proximity app,
expecting to see a red glowing form of declared interest but
there was nothing but the cold cool light of winter from the
window. Dark horse. Unplugged. Playing it cool. Playing it
organic.
Tabitha whispered in his ear and Adam laughed in
response, only half listening — this one was beautiful, really
beautiful. Not like all the others here; his face was a mirror
in which Adam saw his own fascination.
‘Do you need another drink?’ the voice sang a quiet song,
it’s accent reached Adam and confused him, delighted him. Of
course. Their faces. It made sense; their elegance; Russians.
Not brutal, stompy Russians but delicate cautious Russians,
full of secrets, full of song.
Adam looked down at his empty drink and laughed, ‘I do!’
The brother raised his hand and made a quick, tiny motion
to the bartender, ‘four more of these.’
‘Why don’t you both sit down here next to us,’ he said.
‘Would you care for a cigarette?’ he asked when Adam and

/ Terror, Terror / 14
Tabitha had returned with chairs. Both of them shook their
heads politely.
‘You know you’re not supposed to smoke,’ Adam grinned.
‘But I understand that no one at The Broken Fish is
interested in enforcing such rules.’
‘I don’t know,’Adam confessed, I’m here cause my mate is
performing. Have you been here long?’
‘Sorry?’
‘In this country,’
‘Oh,’ Aslan replied, turning his head back towards the
window for a moment, ‘a pair of years, yes.’
‘Where you are from?’
‘What does that matter?’
‘I’m interested,’
‘I think it’s interesting what we make of ourselves now
and tomorrow. Not yesterday.’
‘But I am today everything that brought me to this point
where I meet you,’ he delivered with a coy smile.
‘That’s not true. Today you can do anything, you can be
anything and tomorrow even more. What do you want to do?’
‘I’m studying philosophy,’
‘So you must understand what I mean. You want to be a
philosopher?’
‘I’m not sure what that means, to be a philosopher,’ Adam
replied, ‘I want to make philosophy.’
‘Very good, yes,’ Aslan smiled, ‘to make, that’s good. We
should be creators, all of us.’
‘I’m in love with Ann Ramm, the Heidegerian philosopher,
her work on what it means to be a human in the chip and bot
age is incredible.’
‘So you know what it’s like to decide to be something
new, now.’
‘But you can’t omit your origins.’

/ Terror, Terror / 15
The two young men were held together, trapped by the
other’s face, not smiling, neither unhappy. Adam felt failure
loom, ‘but that doesn’t matter,’ he said, ‘what’s your name?’
Aslan leaned in close to Adam’s face, their two cheeks
almost touching, ’shall we make up one for me that only you
know?’
‘There you go again,’
‘Where have I gone?’ Aslan leaned back, smiling.
‘Hiding yourself from me.’
‘The past is so ugly and boring. You and I can create
something special together.’
‘But your name is who you are.’
‘If you were to give me a name right now then that could
be very special,’ he almost winked, his smiling face, hovering
closely to Adam’s own and Adam could feel the heat from the
energy between their two cheeks, between their lips hovering
close, whispering, smiling, sharing, giving.
‘You will have to give me time to think of one,’ Adam
laughed quietly.
‘The management,’ a woman in deep dark trousers spoke
from the door of the room, ‘would like to inform you all that
Damien Payne’s performance will begin in five minutes.’
‘We can’t miss Daymo,’ Adam grabbed Tabitha’s sleeve,
‘let’s get a good view,’ his eyes went back to Aslan, smiling,
uncertain, waiting.
‘We will just finish our drinks and cigarette’s,’ Aslan
said, pulling back towards his sister still staring silently
out of the window, ‘and then we will join you.’
‘I’ll look for you,’ Adam replied.
‘I know where they’re from,’ Tabitha pulled Adam sharply
to the side of the corridor.
‘They’re Russian.’
‘You saw how cagey he was about where they are from. They

/ Terror, Terror / 16
must be from Chechnya.’
‘Surely not! Isn’t Chechnya a terrorist country?’
‘Well, exactly. Why else so cagey. And Muslims too I
bet.’
‘But Muslims! Terrorists. My God,’ he put his hand to his
mouth, shocked, and suddenly, adrenalin filled, blurted ‘we
must tell someone!’ and before Tabitha could say another word
Adam had flown down the stairs. She tripped as she ran and she
slid to the wet floor. Stupid fucking heels good for nothing I
don’t know why I bother. Trying to fucking look good in this
shitty place. She caught her herself, remembering that she
wanted to stay cheery. Checking for muck and bruises she
picked herself up. Entering the performance room she scanned a
few minutes before catching sight of Adam talking animatedly
in the corner. A man raised a finger and bouncers moved
towards them. ‘What are you doing?’ Tabitha grabbed Adam’s
hand once she’d squeezed through.
‘They have to know if there might be terrorists here!’ he
whispered back, ’they’re probably not dangerous but you can’t
take chances.’
‘But we don’t know that they are terrorists, just leave
it.’
‘But they’re muslims, like you said.
‘I didn’t say bloody go and tell someone about it, I just
thought you should know.’
‘Don’t worry, the club will do the right thing. What if
we hadn’t said anything and then something had happened. Could
you live with yourself?’ Adam’s eyes were wide, ‘just think
about that. What if something happened. One has to think about
these things.’
‘Yes, that’s him there,’ he said pointing towards Aslan
now making his way down the stairs.
‘Damien’s on stage,’ the manager said to the bouncers,

/ Terror, Terror / 17
‘we don’t want any drama. Quietly, quietly, to the back room.’
‘And in this scene there is flotsam, gulls and waves. You
are the flotsam, or the gulls or the waves. I don’t know,’
Damien rippled in the light, ‘only you know what you are.
Become the flotsam if that’s what you are because, in the end,
it really won’t matter. Do not fear because you do not
understand nor know what to do. You will be something else in
hell.’
#
‘Where are you from?’ The bouncer asked.
‘I’ve done nothing,’ Aslan replied.
And the bouncer took his slim head in his broad hand and
slammed it onto the table. Aslan closed his eyes, the room
rang; the bodies standing over him were covered in light. He
was tired and he wanted to cry out from the pain but wouldn’t.
‘Get the scanner from upstairs,’ the manager ordered, the
lines on his gaunt face tightened, his voice hushed, almost
worshipful.
‘We are free to choose,’ Aslan said, ‘we choose creation,
liberty, love, this category of thing,’
‘What the fuck is he talking about?’ the manager asked.
The bouncer slammed his head back down on the table and Aslan
was silent.
The scanner arrived.
‘Born: Grozny, Chechnya. 20xx’
‘Why is the birthdate corrupted?’
Shrugs.
‘You are a terrorist?’ the manager asked.
‘No, no, I choose love.’
‘You are a muslim?’
‘No, no.’
‘It says here you are a muslim. You’re from Grozny.’
‘We are free.’

/ Terror, Terror / 18
‘You’re a convert to Islam?’
‘No, no.’
‘You were born a muslim, weren’t you.’
‘My family are from the…’
‘You are a terrorist?’
‘No, no.’
Voices conferred quietly in the corner. What can be done?
Call the police? No one will care; the police have to worry
about their paperwork. Just deal with it here. Quietly,
cleanly.
To Aslan the voices retreated far away. Things had
happened before. Many things. Life goes on. The pain doesn’t
matter. The only thing that matters is that his sister would
be waiting for him and so would the philosophy student,
smiling, both of them waiting to embrace him, take him home.
Never come back here. And they would make something beautiful
of their lives. Why not. The boy seems sweet. Soon this hard
table would not be his pillow. Soon he would not be hearing
these voices.
The manager said to the bouncer, ‘I want it done quietly,
cleanly, no mess and I don’t want anyone to know about it.
Take care of the body out of the back. Use your contacts,
whatever. Do not come back into the club through these doors;
leave the Damien performance alone. Come back around through
the front doors. I guess that’s about it. Thanks for your help
dealing with this little problem, I’ll see to it that you get
a nice Christmas bonus. Alright gentlemen, thanks again, he
nodded genially before disappearing to the offices.
The two bouncers, between them, took Aslan’s life into
their hands.
And suddenly screaming could be heard from the
performance room next door. The manager, watching Damien Payne
die from the control room, pounced on his microphone, ‘flood

/ Terror, Terror / 19
them with trauma apps, grief kits, the works, send
advertisements out to everyone in the room.’
A winter’s wind blew all around, freezing the clubbers as
they streamed into the street soon filled with lights, taxis
and noise. What can you do, many muttered, the hipster
prophet, senselessly killed — all this terrorism. So much
terrorism. And the night wind screamed.


