A loud knock rattled the door on Clayton’s brand-new travel trailer. He took the last swig of his
pre-ride beer and then yanked open the door. A kid with scruffy, blonde hair stood a few feet
away from the metal steps that lead up to the trailer’s entryway. After a few moments, he
realized it was the young kid the office manager used to run errands and other menial chores.
Clayton said, “Well, what do you want?”
The kid held his hand up to shield his eyes from the midsummer Arizonan sun. “There’s
a woman on the phone asking for you.”
Clayton leaned away from the door and tossed the empty beer bottle into the small
trashcan next to the sink. He grabbed his cowboy boots and sat down on the upper step. His
silver spurs were already cinched in place and jangled as he pulled on each boot. The kid shifted
but made no attempt to leave.
“Okay, okay, run along. I’ll be right behind you.”
The kid spun around and took off jogging. His gait wasn’t much faster than walking, but
he covered a hundred yards down the main dirt road toward the arena before Clayton got more
than fifty feet from his trailer.
Minutes later, Clayton’s shoulder bumped the door frame as he stepped into the cramped
rodeo office on the second floor. The office door was always propped open, and through the
opening he kept his focus on a fellow bull rider straddling the back of a monstrous grey Brahman
bull inside the chute.
Clayton tried to snatch the black handset off the counter but dropped it. The receiver
banged against the front of the counter: beige paneling from the nineteen seventies. It would’ve
fallen to the floor, had its long-coiled cord stretching to the heavy rotary base not caught on the

edge. After struggling with the cord for ten to twenty seconds, he placed the handset against his
face.
Clayton said, “Hello.”
“Hello. Clayton?”
“Yes. Are you a fan?” His turn to ride was approaching fast and he moved over to the
large window that overlooked the arena. He tapped the tip of his boot against the banged-up trim
that ran along the bottom of the wall.
“No. I’m Eloise from Ryebeck, Kansas.” She fought her raspy voice as if she had a
terrible cold.
“Oh. What’s this about?”
The Brahman began bucking and twisting before the gate could swing all the way open.
The rider flew off its back and Clayton winced when the man’s lanky body slammed against the
churned-up ground: flat on his side. Carlsbad, not the rider’s name, but where he called home.
“There’s no easy way to say this.” She muffled a cough. “You’re the father of my son.”
The rodeo and announcers became dull, like it was all on T.V. “You’re mistaken. The last
time I was in Kansas must’ve been…”
“He’s three. I’d given up on finding you, but then you showed up on the news riding
bulls. You didn’t,” she paused, “don’t seem like the type to drop everything because of some
fling in Kansas.”
Another rider clambered up onto the platform above the chutes. He lowered his body into
position on top of a tan bull named Kistler’s Whistler. Clayton frowned at the man, wearing a
flashy black and red vest, who took first place from him less than a month ago.
He closed his eyes. “Three?”



“His name is Jesse.”
“I worked on the wheat harvest crews back then. We went through Kansas.” For a
second, endless fields of golden wheat stretched out in all directions. “It could’ve been any one
of the men on those crews.”
“Do you still have that huge belt buckle? The one with your name, two roses, and a colt
revolver on the front of it.”
He opened his eyes right as Kistler’s Whistler sent the rider sailing of its back a fraction
of a second after the eight-second horn. “I lost that one a couple years ago in Cheyenne—two
colt forty-fives and a single rose.”
A southern drawl crackled out of the loud speaker. “Yowza, what a fine ride by Howie
Lawrence, no doubt it’s going to post high. Anything over eighty-six will put him in the top
three, don’t you think Terry?”
“Yes sir, it sure will.”
Eloise cleared her throat. “The buckle is about all I remember besides your face and that
cheap motel out on route fifty, the one the harvest crews still overrun every fall. I’ve never been
much of a drinker.”
“Nah, you’re that girl?”
“You’ve got a wonderful son down here in Ryebeck.”
He lifted the black Stetson off his head and reseated it, an attempt to make a straighter,
tighter fit. “What do you want from me?”
The announcers’ chatter came again. “Sam, there’s only one cowboy out there who can
run away with this and head off to the semifinals.”



“You got that right Terry and he’s up right after this next fine rider from Havilland,
Texas.”
She said, “I’m sick.” A child began wailing in the background. “The doctors’ say it’s
curable, but I’m telling you about your son in case they’re wrong.”
His face contorted. “Sick?”
“Cancer, but…”
“Look, I gotta go. My bull is going to be led to the gates soon.” He tried to step out of the
doorway, but the long phone cord reached its limit and stopped him from going any farther than
the threshold.
“I—we don’t expect anything. I wanted to make sure you knew about Jesse in case…”
“These are the quarterfinals. I’ll be disqualified if I miss my ride.”
Two of the three rodeo clowns rushed in and drew the attention of an agitated bull away
from a fellow rider and the crowd’s roar made it impossible to hear anything she said except the
word please.
He moved to the counter and stuck his finger in his ear. “What?”
“My phone number and address—write them down on something you won’t throw
away.”
“Fine, fine just hurry up.”
#
Eight months later, Clayton parked his truck at the address on the five-dollar bill he’d scribbled it
on. After getting out, he yawned and stretched standing next to his truck. Driving non-stop from
Albuquerque with his trailer in tow was the only way he could stop by before beginning another
ranch hand job.

4

Eloise greeted him at the door unsure of what to make of his unexpected visit. Her face
was gaunt, eyes haggard. Jesus, he’d have guessed she was at least sixty-years-old instead of
thirty something.
A sister with the distant stare of a drug-addled brain and their feeble grandmother stood
in the small kitchen gaping at him. Jesse, four-years-old now, rushed over to him and held out his
hand to show off a deep cut with fresh stitches. The boy was his undeniable miniature and
arguing otherwise would’ve been foolish.
After a bit, Eloise led him out the back door, which flopped and screeched, the bottom
hinge torn away from the rotted frame. The lower edge had worn a deep groove in the wooden
planks of the stoop and Clayton paused to assess the damage. He could fix the damn thing in ten
minutes, but Eloise motioned for him to follow.
They passed through a backyard cluttered with two rusting lawn mowers, faded
pinwheels with broken blades, and dead weeds choking out the patchy grass. She led him a
hundred yards into an open field of ankle-high, green wheat before turning to face him.
“They talk about remission, but I feel worse than ever before.” Her voice became
croakier with each word.
He smiled. “You’re recovering.”
“I’m begging you to take Jesse when I die.” She stared into his eyes—a piercing intrusion
he was unaccustomed to getting from man or woman. “Momma’s too old and sis does meth or
God knows what.”
“I’m on the road half the year chasing the circuit. That ain’t no place for a child. Besides
the ranches where I work offseason have strict rules against kids in the bunkhouses—wives too.”

5

He waved his hat in a circular motion. His nicest Stetson, a white felt Boss of the Plains
with distressed leather band, was still in his hand after taking it off to enter the house. The hat
was in pristine condition, he only wore it for funerals, weddings, and the awarding of stunning
belt buckles with prize money. The oddity of being outside without something covering his head
struck him as she spoke.
“Ryebeck will be no better for him when I’m gone, likely worse.” She fidgeted with the
strings of her bedraggled apron.
“I don’t know the first thing about young children.”
She slanted a smile. “You figure it out as you go along.”
“There’s must be a better…” He searched her face.
“If I could’ve found a more suitable place, I’d have left you alone.”
“You’re in remission. The cancer is gone.”
He turned away and stared at Ryebeck, which was four or five miles off to the west. The
graffiti-covered grain elevator stood like a beacon on one side of town. Farther to the South, the
greyish-blue water tower with R in fading white paint seemed taller, but it was too close to call a
winner. The same small pit stop from his harvesting days should’ve shriveled up and died out.
What in the hell was keeping the damn place alive?
“Banking on my survival is a fool’s dream.”
He snapped his head back. “I can ill afford to…”
“I’m sending him to you when the time comes.” She dropped the apron strings and
pointed at him. “If you turn away your own son, then that’s how it’ll have to play out.”
He shied away as if her pointing had stabbed him. “Damn you woman. We’ve got to
figure something else out.

6

“I’ve figured it every which way I can, and it keeps coming back to you. I hate it, but
that’s how this damn stew pot is boiling over.”
Clayton smashed a cluster of wheat with the heel of his boot. “It ain’t going work out.”
“By god you’re about the sorriest excuse for a father I ever met.”
“I never claimed I’d make a good father.”
“No, and I’m guessing you never will.”
#
Two years after his quick stopover in Ryebeck, Eloise’s sister and grandmother piled
back into the green Chevy Nova they’d “borrowed from a friend.” Calving season forced them to
bring the boy to him and he was shocked they obliged. Even though the sister made it seem that
breaking parole was more of a nuisance than a risk the women were heading home before an
hour had even past. Without so much as even hugging Jesse goodbye they drove off. The boy,
content playing with dirt clods curdling the ground inside the small corral next to the bunkhouse,
did little more than glance up.
The rattletrap with rusted wheel wells, missing tailpipe, and bald tires shook and
sputtered as it crawled down the long lane of the big, sprawling Texas Ranch Clayton had hired
on with during the bull riding offseason. As the car picked up speed, black exhaust fogged into
the dusty cloud being churned up. Clayton bet they wouldn’t even get past the county line before
the Nova broke down.
After they drove out of sight, he tore open the envelope the grandmother had handed him
as soon as she stepped out of the car. “Christ, now what?”
He unfolded the pages and muttered. “Shit, do I have to wash him, or can he do it
himself?”

7

Clayton,
He’s a little boy and he needs someone to look after him. I reckon hard love is better than
none. I’m hoping you can do right by him, but I have my misgivings about this arrangement.
Even so, you’re his best chance.
1. He eats like a lumberjack and about as often as a slop hog.
2. With your lifestyle school will be difficult, but he needs to learn.
3. He’s all boy. He likes cars, action figures, sticks, and anything that’ll get him grubby
or in trouble.
4. He questions everything, which will be trying for you, but it’s a phase as most things
are with children.
Well, this list could go on for pages upon pages and you’ve skimmed it at most. I assume
there’re many women in your life. A consistent female influence could help ensure he grows up
to be less gruff than his father. My mind runs wild about what he’ll be like after spending time
with you, yet all I can do is cling to hope. That’s harsh, but I don’t care because he’s such a
loving boy.
Please tell him about me when the time is right. You know little more than my name, but
just tell him that I wish I could’ve had a whole life time with him. I’ve loved him since the day I
found out about our miracle and I’ll never stop loving him (don’t you ever tell him he was a
mistake). I’ll be watching over him from Heaven and praying for both of you.
My body will be placed next to my father’s plot in Ryebeck’s smaller cemetery.
The map on the back of this letter will get you there. I hope you bring him by on occasion so I’m
more than a name.
Sincerely,

8

Eloise Anita Grangler
#
Two nights ago, as late as possible, Clayton parked his trailer among the new fancier rigs lined
up in the large grassy expanse behind the stadium arena. Jesse and he had travelled all day from
Denver to get to Ogden for the finals. He had only qualified to ride in the finals because another
rider had broken most of the bones in his hand during a bar brawl while celebrating his
placement. While Clayton jacked up the tongue to unhitch his travel trailer and Jesse hooked up
the electric, he noted how much things had changed over the last ten years.
Even in the oncoming darkness the names in cursive reflective stencil on fifth wheels
bigger than buses shined like sunfish on bright mornings. The numerous colorful lights running
along the sides annoyed him more than the flickering glows of T.V.’s that lit up the tinted
windows inside every one of them. Everything had advanced: savvier Sunday crowds, higher
stakes, larger, more aggressive bulls—everything except him.
The following day, after two solid postings, Clayton wanted to sit and rest in his recliner,
but the boy stood by the sink shuffling the dishes around instead of washing them. The trailer
was littered with takeout boxes, whiskey bottles, dirty clothes, and greenish yellow blades of
grass tracked in from outside. Jesse made no attempt to explain why he had ignored his chores.
Clayton popped the top off a post-ride beer and tossed the cap at the waste basket. The lid
bounced off a crumpled paper bag on top of the overloaded receptacle.
Clayton said, “After doing the dishes, you need to at least pick up the place and get rid of
the trash.”
“This is bullshit. I’m not your maid.”
“You got to earn your keep.”

9

He slammed a handful of utensils into the sink and turned to face Clayton, fists clenched.
“Not for you, not anymore.”
“What’re you going to do boy? Get a job? Head out on your own? I ain’t about to stop
you.”
“I can do everything you can, even more.”
“Can you?”
“Screw you. Maybe I’ll join Zeke and those guys. They like me.”
“Pfft, rodeo clowning, that’s your grand plan?”
“Better than being a washed-up bull buster or bronc jockey.”
“Do whatever you think is best, but I’m warning you…bull riding is dangerous, no doubt
about it. Clowning? Now, that’ll get you killed.”
“Great, then I can be as semi famous as my old pops.”
“Get out, get out here now.”
Jesse stormed out of the old travel trailer and screamed he was never come back. The
door banged shut with a thwack. The same thunderclap from when Clayton slammed his own
father’s door rang out. Not much older at the time, he joined the wheat harvest crews the
following morning. What in the hell was the rash punk going to do? Would he join up with Zeke
and Darryl as their newest clown? They needed another and had for some time ever since Billy
Collins shattered his hip. The odds of them letting a sixteen-year-old join their ranks seemed
low.
#
Sunday night he got ready for the last ride of his career, whether he won or not. Eloise’s
letter drew his attention away from packing his green, canvas gear bag. Wedged into the upper

10

corner of his full-sized mirror on the sliding closet door, the whitish paper had turned yellow.
Tattered edges and dark stains made her handwritten words seem older than a decade. A partial
view of the map made him guzzle over half his pre-ride beer. Why had he never taken Jesse to
see her? Pride, disdain, or the excuse he’d used every time the subject came up: they were too
busy?
His image distorted by a large crack angling across the mirror also slowed his routine
except his drinking which sped up and led to another one. Deep wrinkles from years in the sun
made him appear older than his age. Too much booze, too little sleep, and vying for a top spot in
a sport for young men had broken down his body. Soon, irritation and a ticking clock pushed him
out of the tiny bedroom-bathroom combination. The beers had him more buzzed than normal
because downing two before a ride was unusual.
When Clayton finished getting his stuff together, he sat down on the couch because it was
too soon to head to the chutes. The trailer was messier than ever before because Jesse kept his
word and stayed away. Clayton smiled at the boy’s resolve. Then the past forced its way into his
mind. Filthy, hot days of harvesting led him to the back-breaking work on different ranches
across the American landscape, more often in the South than the North or Midwest.
On a languid Saturday afternoon with the chores completed, he and the other hands began
drinking whiskey on a five thousand acre spread in Oklahoma. Soon, the owner came by the
horse shoe pits and joined them for a drink and a few tosses of the shoes. The short, stocky old
timer challenged them to ride Dempsey, a retired pro-circuit bull: his most prized animal flesh.
Most Saturdays he offered the same challenge, and nobody ever took it on. This time, he upped
the ante with a hundred-dollar bill for anyone that could go six seconds or longer.
Two other hands failed to go more than a few seconds before Dempsey launched them

11

into the large patches of Mexican sandburs swathed across the rarely used practice corral.
Clayton lifted his hat in the air and whooped after he jumped off Dempsey’s back. The owner
strolled over to him and pulled the hundred dollar bill out of his billfold. Before he handed it to
him he worked the chaw in his cheek with his tongue and took of his hat.
The owner said, “How long you think you was on there?”
“Seven maybe eight seconds?”
“Over twelve. How’d you know how to kick your heels and keep your left hand in the
air? You playing me, boy?”
“No sir. Seen it enough I guess.”
“You might be in wrong profession.”
From there, with the owner’s help, things took off and bull riding—almost overnight—
became his main way of life. Fast living followed. A blur of women’s faces, booze, and
squandered prize money made him clench his teeth.
All alone in the dimly lit trailer his past seemed like someone else’s memories, someone
else’s heartache. The multitude of people he’d met and the places he’d been were immersed in
vapid daydreams. He swatted the tinfoil pan of a T.V. dinner off the arm of the couch. The
goddamned choices stood out more than anything else. Choices, good, bad, or indifferent were
open sores always festering and eating away at his future.
He stepped out of the trailer with his bag in hand. The night was dark and airless,
familiar. The bag’s bulkiness made it uncomfortable against his hip. Rosin powder, bull rope,
and leather gloves were stuffed in with his button-down, long sleeved western shirt for the after
party, along with dozens of other odds and ends like ace bandages, a mouthguard he never used,

12

and three or four packages of gauze. In the trailer he’d already put on his spurs and competition
vest breaking further away from his ritual.
He hobbled past rows of those plush RVs and pricey trailers, the limp from his training
days worsening every year from hard living and rough riding. The roar of a Sunday crowd rose
with each painful step he made toward the arena.
His right shoulder still throbbed from the first two rides and soft, powdery dirt worked
through small holes in the bottoms of his lucky boots. Halfway to the chutes he paused. He took
a deep breath and tried to work the kinks and soreness out of his shoulder and leg. Then he
shuffled into the frenzied excitement near the back of the chutes.
The loud speakers hailed out John Jared’s score of eighty-six point two, five. One of the
announcers continued, “That young man from Texarkana can ride with the best of ‘em. That puts
him in third place. Kenny Jenkins has the lead with his second-round score of eighty-eight point
seven. The other riders are gonna’ have one a heck of a time catching him with this line-up of
rambunctious bulls. We haven’t seen a number near ninety in quite some time, eh Jim?”
“Oh, it’s been a while Cal.”
Clayton’s mind cleared, and he tried to focus on the next twenty minutes. When was the
last time one of his rides scored above eighty-eight? Holding on the full eight seconds for much
of the year had proved difficult and more like luck when it happened, until yesterday. His first
two rounds had given him a slim chance for one last taste of glory. His final ride would have to
score above ninety to take the title.
His draw for the third round could’ve been worse, but few riders considered Jackknife a
great bull for scoring. One of the gate men called over to him, “man your bull is a goosey
orange-brown wrecking ball of fluttering butterflies.”

13

Clayton snorted. “That’s one way to put it.”
He tossed his bag onto the ground at the back of the gates. As soon as he glanced up, the
chute man gave him the two-minute signal. His bull rope, snake-like, slid out of the bag as he
freed it and the can of rosin from the tangled mass. He thrust the rope up into a sea of hands. He
wasted no time trying to figure out who had grabbed the most important piece of his gear. One of
the chute workers would ensure to strap it around the bull’s girth and pass him the correct end.
He bent down to deal with the rest of his stuff—glove, chaps, and latigos. Buckling the
chaps only took a moment or two, the same with the tying the latigos around the tops of his
boots. The glove snugged his hand and grew warmer the more he rosined it.
Then he clambered up the fence and onto the platform above the chute. His pain
vanished. Exhilaration was a powerful analgesic like chugging a pint of two hundred proof grain
alcohol. He salted rosin on his glove for the bull rope and then dropped the small plastic canister
down by his bag.
The world drowned out as he assumed the position on top of Jackknife. He locked eyes
with the same chute man who’d given him the two-minute warning. The lanky man’s calm,
regimented demeanor was meant to ease a rider’s anxiousness. It was a strategy that worked on
the rarest occasions, at least for Clayton.
Voices of familiar commenters echoed out of the loud speakers. The pent-up power of
Jackknife flowed out from the beast’s flanks and into his legs, like the bridled energy before a
high magnitude earthquake. He crushed everything into a ball of hardened steel that sat in the pit
of his stomach and waited.
The chute man nodded again; Clayton had the green light to give his signal whenever he
was ready for the gate handlers to release them. He tightened his grip on the bull rope and took a

14

deep breath. His left hand rose into the air from tempered instinct. The gate swung open and the
buzzer sounded.
Jackknife surged out of the chute whirling into the arena in a dizzying series of spins and
bucks. The crowd roared: a din no louder than a murmur in his ears. Jackknife became the
furious bucking bull selective breeding had intended.
At first the bull’s erratic rhythm jarred and jostled him. He almost flew out of the saddle
but held on as the bull thrashed beneath him. Then, like a storm front dying away, its spins,
twists, bucks, and hops became smooth. He kept his arm up higher than ever before and his heels
pumping like pistons. When the horn sounded, he had to fight the urge to let out a yeehaw.
He tried to dismount, but his glove had bound up in the bull rope. The tangle of leather
and hemp held him to the side of the wild bucking brute. His tiptoes tapped the churned dirt
every second or third time Jackknife bucked.
Jackknife continued his spinning rampage and Clayton dangled off the bull’s side. His
shoulder popped when it tore from the socket. He could no longer keep any space between him
and the solid, muscular side. After a few jolting hops Jackknife reared his head back and
Clayton’s faced slammed into its poll. The impact stunned him, but he remained semiconscious.
Blood seeped from his nostrils and trickled down his upper lip. For minutes, he flopped and
flailed until the bull rope released. He crumpled to the ground.
Things were happening around him, but they were slow and fuzzy. The hooves of a oneton bull churned up the dirt inches from his head as Jackknife continued to buck, spin, and search
for him. Dazed and unable to move, all he could do was lay there hoping the bull’s hooves kept
missing him, missing his head. Then the shadowed figure of a rodeo clown appeared. Jackknife’s
monstrous form moved away, and Clayton’s body relaxed.

15

“Zeke, is that you?” Clayton’s voice was weak and hoarse.
“No Dad, it’s me.” Jesse’s face, painted sad clown, loomed above him. “Are you okay?”
“Where’s the bull?”
Jesse glanced over his shoulder and then back down at Clayton. “Relax, we’ve got him.”
“Where’s the fucking…”
The long horn of Jackknife caught Jesse’s baggy pants and swept him off his feet. A
quick powerful twist of the bull’s head flung him up in the air. He landed a few feet away from
Clayton in the musky dirt with a thud. The loud snap of a bone breaking preceded Jesse’s
screams.
The crowded arena went silent. Raucous fans sat in their seats rigid and muted, a
common courtesy to respect to the injured men. Jesse writhed and Clayton tried to get up to help
him. He was still too dazed to do more than loll his head. The bright arena lights created halos
and distortion. For a moment the young boy he’d met in Ryebeck lay beside him.
“What’d you break, a leg?” Clayton inched his arm closer to the boy.
Jesse gasped and groaned like the wind had been knocked out of him.
Clayton said, “Be tough, help’s coming.”
“Unhhh.”
“Jesse?”
A rush of people cut off more words. Two cowboys lifted Clayton to his feet and the
crowd erupted. A score of ninety point five zero echoed through the din. His fist rose into the air
and he soaked in the adulation from the deafening rumble. A half dozen cowboy hats, two or
three baseball caps, and a pink bandana landed at his feet. His gaze followed Jesse being hauled
off in a stretcher. For a moment he stood fast, unable to move or react.

16

When he tried to run to Jesse, he stumbled and collapsed to his knees. The cowboys
who’d helped him were quick to get him back on his feet, but he shook out of their grasp. He
stumbled forward, this time keeping upright as he plodded toward the station wagon style
ambulance parked in its designated spot at the far end of the arena.
“Wait, that’s my son.”
The announcers’ voices called out through the starry night and muted his words. “What a
spectacular finish. His final ride in a long rocky career and he takes tonight’s title. Ya gotta’ feel
pretty bad that he and one of our heroic clowns got beat to hell. They’re telling us it’s a nasty
injury, but the clown should pull through. Jim, do you even know that guy?”
“No Cal can’t say I do. If he keeps protecting our hard riding ‘boys like that, then he’ll
either have one heck of a career or a darn short one.”
“You ain’t kidding. Okay folks let’s hear another round of applause for our big winner
Clayton Donbrooke.”
Before Clayton could holler again, Jesse was loaded into the ambulance, the driver
already behind the wheel. He kept moving forward, forcing himself to remain on his feet. With
each step he grew steadier, stronger, yet he hadn’t even reached the center of the arena when the
ambulance flipped on its light and sirens, then sped off.
End

17


