When the rain started to fall, Gabe set the traps and huddled beside the campfire and ate
his dinner from a can. With the rain he wouldn’t have to wade through the swamp with his net
and flashlight. In the rain they would come to him, like night crawlers to the surface. He stared
into the flames watching the burn change the form of the wood and listened for the sound of the
traps.
The solitude of this assignment appealed to him. He didn’t have to report back to the
university until the end of the year. He wasn’t expected to carry a cell, which he feared could be
tracked by the satellites that passed overhead in the night. He recorded his findings on a
spreadsheet stored in a manila envelope. There was no electronic signal emanating from his
camp, no easy way for the hired hands from the chemical plant situated on the convenient
waterway with their concealed weapons to find him. His footprint was as negligible as his Indian
grandfather’s and his habits as austere as a Capuchin monk’s—an old Army jeep he’d rescued
from a National Guard storage yard was his only means of transportation and his tent and
campstove were left over from another generation’s lost war—though he wasn’t old enough to
remember a world without satellites and cell phones or any war that hadn’t been lost.

The funding to continue his research came from an anonymous source, and while he
questioned the intentions of anonymity, he took the money.
The traps were going off in the dark, and he took a swig from his flask and lit up a
smoke. The combination licked heat through him like a tongue escaped from the fire. Yes, he
took the money.
If what he suspected to be happening was, it would manifest itself first in the susceptible
amphibian population, in the frogs that didn’t sing the night away anymore. He didn’t know why
they’d stopped singing, but the surrounding ponds and creeks of the Lake District lay silent in
the night. And that was more frightening than something falling out of the sky, more frightening
then light pollution to the north where the only light should be the cascading colors of the aurora
borealis. More frightening then the men with microphones in their lapels who paid a visit to his
cramped office after his editorial piece appeared in the local newspaper. He wasn’t an idiot. He
could tell when someone was packing, and weapons weren’t allowed on campus, and with that
for leverage he’d found the balls to refuse their demanded retraction. If he could just get the
wealthy Yacht Club behind him, they just might get the Ro plant closed. Or at least get it out of
the Great Lakes watershed.
Gabe put his empty ravioli can in his knapsack to store in the tent. Raccoons and coyotes
would destroy his camp if they caught the slightest whiff of food. He stubbed out his cigarette
butt and put it in his pocket, then adjusted himself and realized he had an inconvenient hard-on.
Get a little food in the stomach and other things activated. He was a lightning rod of
connectivity. Sometimes the need hit him like a sledge hammer at the oddest times—as if the
thought of lurking coyotes should give a guy a boner. There was something to be said for the
comfort of masturbation, but once in a while it’d be nice to have something other than frenzied

sex with someone you didn’t want to spend the night with. Sex with someone you could share a
cup of coffee and a donut with in the morning. But it wasn’t easy to find a woman who would
put up with his lifestyle, even for one night. They always had a problem with sleeping on the
ground next to his amphibious roommates, or with his unfamiliarity with a bar of soap, though he
would on occasion take a dip in whatever pond or creek he was working, and that was good
enough for him. He wasn’t that involved in personal grooming.
It was after midnight when he banked the fire and collected his traps. He unzipped the
canvas tent and aimed his mag light around the interior for the mosquitoes that were on the
upswing and then eased himself in on his knees, kicking his rubber boots off on the rug he’d
placed at the door to trap dirt. With the door zipped tight, he lit his lantern and killed the
flashlight. He hung his rain gear on the collapsible wooden clothesline and put on a dry shirt.
He separated the night’s catch into the adjacent aquariums, one for the disfigured, and
one for those with the fungal disease that was attacking amphibians throughout the bay area.
With their permeable skins, frogs and toads were more sensitive to water pollution, feeling the
effects before other forms of life, including human. Gabe thought of them as “the canaries in the
coal mine” and they were sounding an alarm with their skin disorders and missing parts. An
alarm he was trying to translate into statistics that would move officials to act. Officials who
weren’t toggled to Ro, officials who wouldn’t put off action until the morning they woke to a
kink in their knuckles and lesions on their elbows or a clump of hair on their pillow.
Okay, that was an exaggeration. But he couldn’t resist alluding to the butterfly effect to
set a fire at the government level.

4
He numbered the night’s catch in his notebook and made note of their calamities on the
spreadsheet cross-referenced to his water samples. They watched him work, ignorant of his
findings.
He was almost done with the paperwork when the crack of a branch echoed inside the
tent like gunshot. Gabe dropped his pencil and reached for his Bowie knife and stared at the
zippered door. Conventional wisdom said you didn’t take a knife to a gunfight. Modern wisdom
said you packed a firearm at the waist, or on the hip, or around the ankle. (Behind the seat and
under the bed.) But conventional wisdom didn’t take into account a man raised by a Native
American with a knack for knives and no respect for weapons that made noise. Gabe didn’t carry
a gun.
He doused the light to put himself on equal footing with whatever was out there and
slipped to the door. He listened with his ear to the zipper and heard the shuffle of a step on the
forest floor. He held the knife loosely with one hand and eased the zipper down with his other.
There was no point in hiding.
The clearing was softly lit by his dying campfire. He shouldered his way out and
straightened his back. The rain had stopped but droplets continued to fall off the leaves overhead.
He made out the tree line against the sky and the break in the undergrowth that pinpointed the
opening to the path he’d broken through the woods to the No Trespassing signs posted on the
high voltage fence, beyond which large water ducts dumped foul-smelling water into the lake.
A shadow separated itself from the forest wall, and Gabe clenched the knife and widened
his stance. He heard a snort and saw, or, rather, felt the creature move towards him through the
dark. He swore under his breath but stood his ground. The elk came into view and towered over
him. The animal likewise froze and they stared at each other. Water droplets glistened on his

5
hide and shimmered on the velvet of his antlers, like rain on a pussy willow. Gabe could feel the
steam rising off him and smelled the wet foliage on his breath. He mentally measured the
animal’s height and rack with disbelief. The animal lowered his head and pawed the earth, and
Gabe tried to remember what he knew of elk. Would they charge? Would he see Gabe as a rival?
He hoped he hadn’t been living alone in the woods so long that a rutting elk would see him as a
rival.
He took a step back and a sudden full-bellied croak came from inside the tent. The animal
lifted his head and his nostrils flared like a bellows. A whole chorus of unexpected singing rose
on the night air, like a stalled car catching throttle. He swung his rack from side to side and Gabe
wondered what it would be like to walk through the woods with that bracket strapped to your
head. How would you keep a low profile and hide during the day? How would you grow to be
old?
The singing stopped abruptly, as if swept aside by a conductor’s baton, and the elk
turned, and with a lunge of his haunches, crashed through the underbrush and disappeared into
the gathering mist that was beginning to look like snow. Gabe blinked and wiped his mouth on
the back of his hand. It was as though the animal had been transported from the wilds to his
camp via a time warp that just as quickly reversed itself. If he’d had more than a couple of swigs
from his flask he would’ve questioned his ability to correctly interpret the scene.
He fingered the dog chains around his neck engraved with his father’s name and blood
type and listened to the night. Elk hadn’t been seen in the state since Ro took up residence,
having gone the way of the wolverine and the loon, but he’d just seen the grandfather of them all,
lost and looking for a mate.

6
His buddies at the ranger station told him he was a cynic, but he would never again
discount their stories, the things they claimed to have seen while perched above the forest floor
with night goggles and binoculars. It was in their manual—never discount what you see in the
woods at night. Maybe they were right about other things. Maybe he shouldn’t discount nature’s
ability to cleanse herself of them.
He went back in his tent and zipped the door shut and turned the lantern on. The frogs
were quiet. The stillness of the surrounding woods suddenly seemed ominous. He threw a
blanket over the aquariums then peeled off his jeans and crawled into his sleeping bag. If he’d
had a radio he would have turned it on whisper. The quiet had turned into something he wasn’t
sure he could take.
With the light at his elbow and his knife within reach he started to write. If he wrote it
down he might be able to sleep, and in the morning he would look for tracks, see what he could
find. Then he would go into town and develop his pictures and make an extra copy of everything
and put one in the safe in his office and the other in a safety deposit box off campus. He was like
a writer with a prized manuscript leaving copies in remote locations to guard against disaster.
He would present his findings to the DNR before the snow fell and then let the political process
percolate. He would stay away from Ro property.
Unless the tracks led him in the wrong direction.
He was spending too much time alone. He needed someone to put a clean shirt on for.
Someone to take his mind off skin diseases and throat lesions and the foul brew stewing on
private property like mash at a brewer’s club. If he stayed out here much longer he was going to
forget his resolve to let the DNR take care of things. He thought of the roll of old claymore wire
coiled in the back of his jeep like a sleeping snake, of the garbage left over from another

7
generation’s lost war remastered by a poor academic who was dependent on grants and
anonymous benefactors to get the job done but who’d learned from tribal elders that a smart man
had fallback and used what was at hand. A smart man recognized the death throes of the canary
while there was still time to escape.


