Sorry?  Say  again?  Oh,  yes.  The  tour  has  started  already.  Actually,  I  saw  the  
group  head  into  the  lecture  room  a  little  while  ago.  It’s  too  late  for  you  to  join.  First  
time  to  the  Center  for  Living?  Up  for  transplant,  right?  Well,  the  oxygen  tank  is  a  
dead  giveaway.  They  will  want  you  here  on  time,  you  know.  You’ll  have  to  work  on  
that.  Really?  You  don’t  say?  I  mean,  I  understand  why  you’re  late.  You  don’t  have  to  
explain  yourself  to  me.  I  can  tell  you  though,  they  won’t  care.  The  transplant  team  
expects  you  here  five  days  a  week,  if  at  all  possible.  Me?  Oh,  I  don’t  work  for  the  gym.  
I’ve  been  helping  my  sister  who  just  went  through  a  double  lung.  Today’s  her  last  
day  of  rehab,  actually,  but  she’s  in  the  locker  room  now  taking  a  shower,  so  I’m  just  
waiting,  probably  for  a  while.  Does  she  need  help  in  there?  Maybe,  but  now  that  
she’s  post-­‐transplant  she’s  trying  to  do  as  much  on  her  own  as  possible.  She  likes  
her  privacy,  as  I’m  sure  you  understand.  And,  there  are  emergency  cords  in  all  the  
shower  and  toilet  stalls,  so  the  front  desk  would  be  alerted  and  they’d  tell  me.  
Really?  You  took  care  of  your  mother  all  that  time?  I  hear  kidney  cancer’s  a  bitch.  I’m  
sorry  to  hear  that.  Hey,  don’t  shortchange  yourself.  It  may  have  been  years  ago,  but  I  
don’t  care;  once  you  see  someone  that  way,  I  don’t  know,  it  just  changes  you.  You  
know,  if  you  want,  I  can  give  you  the  informal  tour.  I’ve  still  got  some  time  before  my  
sister’s  ready  to  go  and,  with  some  luck,  we  won’t  be  back  to  this  gym  for  a  while.  
No,  there’s  not  a  planned  future  procedure,  but  with  lungs  you  never  know  how  long  
they  last.  So  let  me  give  you  a  leg  up.  They  don’t  tell  you  much  anyway,  the  physical  
therapists,  or  the  booklet  about  lung  transplant.  Trust  me.    
Okay,  to  start,  all  the  doors  have  the  same  handicap  square  that  you  push  to  
open.  If  you  have  a  cane,  feel  free  to  use  that,  and  often  someone  will  be  in  front  of  
you  to  push  it  first.  It  stays  open  plenty  long  enough  for  you  to  shuffle  your  walker  
through.  Did  you  see  Lee  when  you  were  walking  in?  Sitting  on  the  bench  under  the  
awning?  Good.  He’s  nice  and  always  there.  His  daughter  just  had  a  double  lung  too,  
and  only  had  to  be  in  the  hospital  17  days.  She  came  back  a  few  days  ago  for  post-­‐op  
rehab.  Her  name?  I  have  no  idea.  You’ll  find  that  here;  names  are  nothing  compared  
to  your  disease  and  outcome.  You’ll  resist  that  at  first,  make  an  effort  to  put  names  

to  faces,  humanize  their  identity.  You’ll  be  proud  of  your  effort.  Then  one  day,  you’ll  
look  around,  and  realize  that  whatever  names  you  remember  no  longer  have  faces,  
and  anyone  you  can  label  are  by  why  they  are  here  or  how  close  they  are  to  surgery.  
Anyway,  Lee  is  her  caregiver  and  sits  outside  for  hours,  pushing  the  handicap  button  
for  everyone.  He  always  gets  my  name  wrong,  but  he’s  sweet  and  tries,  so  I  don’t  
mind.  You  should  say  hello  and  smile  and  thank  him  when  he  pushes  the  button.  It  
gives  him  something  to  do  and  you,  human  interaction.  Where  you  came  in  just  now,  
on  the  left,  is  the  front  desk  where  you  flash  your  gym  card.  It  should  have  been  in  
your  packet.  It  wasn’t?  You’ll  need  to  get  a  new  card  then,  before  you  leave.  This  is  
technically  an  open  gym  for  anyone  who  pays.  I  have  a  membership  so  I  can  come  
help  my  sister  in  an  “unofficial”  capacity,  but  I  never  workout  here  on  my  own.  I  
mean,  it’s  a  little  depressing.  But  that’s  why  you’ll  see  a  scattering  of  people  that  
don’t  fit  in,  running  freely  on  a  treadmill  or  leg  pressing  two  hundred  pounds.  You  
will  want  to  ignore  them,  gifted  with  health,  just  as  they  ignore  your  deteriorating  
bodies.  We  all  do  what  we  can  to  stave  off  the  weight  of  mortality.  Gyms  are  
supposed  to  be  invigorating,  life  affirming,  and  I  guess,  for  you,  it  can  be  too.  If  
you’re  lucky.    
That  is  Brenda  behind  the  desk.  You  don’t  have  to  talk  to  her,  but  saying  
hello,  or  nodding,  is  nice,  but  she  never  really  notices.  Occasionally  she  will  
comment  on  your  shirt,  or  the  color  of  your  hair,  or  ask  “How  ya  doing?”  in  a  too-­‐
sweet  voice  if  you  look  particularly  shitty.  Do  not  answer  honestly.  You  will  be  
disappointed  by  her  lackluster  response.  If  you  want  a  locker,  she  is  the  one  with  the  
keys.  This  is  the  pile  of  towels,  just  to  the  right  of  the  front  desk.  You  always  get  a  
towel.  It’s  a  sanitation  thing.  You  sit  on  this  towel,  wipe  things  off  with  this  towel,  
wheeze  and  cough  into  the  cleaner  side  of  this  towel.  They  also  make  you  wear  latex  
gloves  whenever  you  touch  anything  that  someone  else  might  touch.  You’re  allergic  
to  latex?  Oh,  then,  I  bet  the  PTs  have  some  you  can  wear.  Or  they  may  let  you  bring  
some  gloves  of  your  own.  You’ll  have  to  ask.  If  you  get  a  cold  or  are  particularly  
paranoid,  you  will  also  need  to  wear  a  facemask,  which  will  get  sweaty  and  start  to  
smell  bad.  Chewing  gum  helps  with  the  smell.  If  you  want,  you  can  Purell  your  
gloves  instead  of  changing  them  to  cut  down  on  waste.  It’s  been  done  before.  These  


doors  on  the  left,  and  those  down  on  the  other  side,  go  to  the  locker  rooms.  I’ve  
never  been  in  the  guy’s,  but  the  girl’s  is  nice—warmer  than  the  open  gym,  showers  
with  really  good  water  pressure,  big  lockers  and  long  benches,  and  a  scale  to  weigh  
yourself.  You  have  to  record  that  once  a  week.  You  will  not  spend  much  time  in  
there  though,  at  least  not  until  you  are  done  for  the  day.  They  do  not  want  you  
hiding.  Mostly,  you  will  rest,  and  eat  your  snack,  and  try  to  catch  your  breath  here,  
on  any  chair  along  this  wall,  with  the  windows  that  look  into  the  small  pool.  Oh  
yeah?  I  love  to  swim  too.    If  you  ever  gain  enough  cardiovascular  endurance  to  swim  
again,  however,  you  might  want  to  wait  until  you  go  home.  Some  of  the  worst  
swimmers  I  have  ever  seen  wrestle  and  slap  their  way  up  and  down  that  pool.  Swim  
at  your  own  risk  if  you  have  to  share  a  lane,  because  most  who  use  the  pool  will  
knock  you  out  and  there  is  no  lifeguard.  Anyway,  there’s  no  assigned  seating,  but  a  
few  people  get  territorial  about  their  chair  and  it’s  best  to  let  them  keep  it.    
You  already  have  oxygen,  but  they  want  you  to  use  their  tanks  and  their  
walkers  while  at  the  CFL.  Why?  I  have  no  idea.  Once  you  sign  in,  you  go  to  the  
oxygen  room,  which  is  the  next  door  after  the  guy’s  locker  room,  and  someone  will  
switch  it  out  and  give  you  the  standard  gym  walker.  You’re  paying  for  it,  so  don’t  
argue  that  you  like  your  home  system  better.  They  don’t  care.  Maybe  having  
everyone  on  standard  equipment  helps  streamline  how  the  PTs  monitor  oxygen  and  
patient  performance.  Or  maybe  it’s  something  with  insurance  coverage  and  the  gym  
makes  a  little  extra  by  charging  for  it.  I  don’t  know  and  they  don’t  have  to  explain  
themselves.  Here  is  the  plastic  folio  that  holds  the  paper  folders  for  all  the  patients.  
Your  last  name?  Ah,  here.  See?  You’re  brand  new,  so  your  color  is  yellow,  for  “boot  
camp.”  Yeah,  I  understand  your  grimace.  Your  first  twenty  sessions  is  called  boot  
camp  for  a  reason.  It’s  a  crash-­‐course-­‐blood-­‐and-­‐tears-­‐don’t-­‐matter-­‐jump-­‐into-­‐
preparing-­‐your-­‐body-­‐to-­‐be-­‐cut-­‐open-­‐and-­‐new-­‐lungs-­‐pushed-­‐in  exercise  routine.  It’s  
all  laid  out  here  on  the  form  that  you  put  on  a  clipboard  and  carry  around  on  your  
walker  so  you  can  check  things  off  as  you  go.  There  should  be  a  stubby  pencil  tied  
with  twine  on  each  board.    
Yes,  I  agree  it  sounds  unforgiving,  but  remember,  this  hospital  has  got  lung  
transplant  down  to  a  science.  That’s  what  they  keep  telling  us  anyway.  In  boot  camp,  

Until  You  Don’t  Anymore  

4  

they  teach  you  the  exercises  and  follow  you  everywhere  until  they’re  convinced  you  
won’t  hurt  yourself  or  someone  else.  Some  people  take  longer  than  others  to  be  
trusted.  Most  patients  here  are  new  to  physical  activity,  at  least  leading  up  to  
needing  a  lung  transplant.  Deteriorating  lungs  make  pushing  against  the  sedentary  
American  norm  very  hard.  Excuse  me?  Hey,  don’t  get  defensive.  I’m  not  criticizing  
you  particularly.  I  watched  my  sister  do  this,  and  I  don’t  blame  you.  But  they  won’t  
listen  to  excuses.  It’s  probably  hard  to  move  around  your  house,  right,  which  is  why  
you’re  here,  so  three  hours  of  activity  will  be  hard.  Maybe  almost  impossible.  But  
remember,  if  you  don’t  get  the  checkmark  for  the  day’s  exercise,  you  don’t  get  the  
lungs.  Do  what  they  say,  even  if  it’s  only  a  sad  excuse  for  the  proper  exercise.  Never  
compare  your  movements  to  fellow  group  members.  You  will  find  horrible  form  
everywhere.  No  one  does  them  right.  Tricep  pull  downs  look  like  T-­‐rex  arm  spasms.  
Assisted  squats  are  hip  twitches.  Bicep  curls  look  strained  and  sloppy  with  three  
pounds.  But  the  PTs  won’t  say  anything  unless  you  are  doing  it  so  badly  you  could  
injure  someone,  or  doing  nothing  at  all.  Movement  is  what  they  want.  As  long  as  
you’re  moving,  even  when  your  eyes  are  fighting  to  close  and  you  need  to  crank  the  
oxygen  another  unit  because  you’ve  dropped  below  90%  blood  saturation  for  the  
third  time,  they  want  you  to  move.  Moving  means  you  are  not  dead.    
  

Okay,  so  you  check  in  at  12:30,  and  before  you  do  strength  training  there  is  a  

floor  class  in  the  middle  of  the  gym  at  1.  Your  packet  says  you  need  PT?  Then  that  
will  happen  first.  Someone  will  beat  on  your  chest  so  you  can  have  help  coughing  up  
slug-­‐sized  mucus,  theoretically  making  the  day’s  work  a  little  easier.  Yeah,  I  doubt  
that  too.  It  all  sounds  confusing,  but  you’ll  get  used  to  it.  You  will  be  bored  during  
floor  class.  You  will  barely  understand  the  broken  echo  of  one  of  the  PTs  over  the  
microphone,  but  you  will  copy  her  movements  in  whatever  approximation  your  
joints  allow.  You  will  sit  in  a  chair  if  you  can’t  get  off  of  the  floor.  You  will  be  
bolstered  and  propped  up  if  you  can  get  off  the  floor  but  cannot  lay  flat.  You  will  be  
assisted  into  whatever  position  allows  you  to  keep  moving.  You  will  have  ankle  
weights  and  free  weights.  They  will  only  be  a  pound  or  two,  but  they  will  feel  heavy  
and  your  muscles  will  quake.  You  wouldn’t  be  here  if  it  were  easy.  You  will  hear  
“And  up.  And  down.  And  up.  And  breathe.  And-­‐”  so  many  times  you  will  dream  that  

Until  You  Don’t  Anymore  

5  

slow,  metallic  rattle  in  your  sleep,  with  the  background  of  coughing  and  wheezing  
and  sputtering  oxygen  tanks.  You  are  used  to  yourself  being  the  sickest  in  a  room,  
but  now  you  are  only  one  of  dozens.  This  will  not  be  a  comfort.  The  sound  of  
sputtering  machines  and  people  and  the  smell  of  antiseptic  failing  to  cover  sweat  
and  bile  will  follow  you  home  and  you  will  need  to  watch  television  before  bed  to  
escape  reality  enough  to  fall  sleep.  That  is,  if  you  sleep  anymore  with  the  coughing  
and  the  labored  gasping  for  air  even  with  oxygen  on  your  face.  You  will  wake  up  the  
next  morning  and  come  again,  day  after  day,  until  you  don’t  anymore.  
  

After  floor  class  you  will  do  the  weights  and  nautilus  equipment  that  I  was  

talking  about  before.  You  will  grow  competitive  and  possessive  over  the  stations.  
You  will  watch  out  the  corner  of  your  eye  at  people  you  recognize  by  face  and  judge  
their  exercises,  while  you’re  waiting  for  the  leg  press  or  the  row.  Then  you  will  do  
much  better  in  your  mind  than  your  shaky,  oxygen-­‐starved  body  will  allow.  That,  or  
you  will  have  accepted  your  disease,  identified  with  it,  in  competition  the  other  way.  
Who  can  be  the  sickest  and  still  not  dead?  Who  can  look  the  most  pained?  Who  is  the  
weakest  in  this  room  and  therefore  requires  the  most  sympathy?  But  there  is  not  
enough  of  that  to  go  around.  No  one  has  any  left;  sympathy.    The  boredom  inevitably  
leaves  you  with  memories  of  youth  and  health,  even  if  you  never  were  really  
“healthy.”  Even  if  you  were  a  smoker,  or  a  drinker,  or  a  hundred  pounds  overweight,  
that  has  long  since  melted  away  with  any  strength  and  the  ability  of  your  lungs.  The  
sicker  you  become,  the  healthier  anything  better  starts  to  look.  You  used  to  be  a  
runner?  Well,  it’s  worse  for  you  then.  You  might  have  expected  yourself  to  be  more  
resilient,  invincible.  You  are  not  used  to  being  sick,  weak,  staring  at  mortality  every  
day.  Isn’t  60  suppose  to  be  the  new  40?  You’ve  been  gypped.      
  

You  will  think  about  death,  and  the  ventilator  post  surgery,  and  the  

imaginary  donor  who’s  lungs  will  “save  your  life.”  And  yet  you  will  be  unable  to  
ignore  the  facts.  That  the  mortality  rate  of  lung  transplants  isn’t  bad  to  start,  but  
then  plummets  after  the  five  year  mark  to  50%.  No  matter  how  many  people  say  
“You  never  know,”  and,  “There  was  that  one  woman  who  had  the  same  set  of  lungs  
for  17  years,”  you  will  think  about  dying,  about  rejection,  and  drowning  in  your  own  
blood  bubbling  from  your  chest  as  your  body  attacks  the  foreign  organ  you  just  

Until  You  Don’t  Anymore  

6  

worked  a  year  to  get.  You  will  get  used  to  people  referring  to  lungs  as  sets  and  pairs,  
like  the  organ  transplant  system  is  a  catalogue  and  your  “numbers”  are  your  size.  
You  will  slip  into  using  these  words  yourself,  even  when  you’re  appalled  at  first.  
That’s  how  these  things  work.  You  will  think  about  all  the  meds  you  will  be  on  if  you  
survive  surgery.  You  will  think  about  God,  even  if  you  don’t  believe  in  that,  which  is  
unlikely.  You  will  find  a  lot  of  God  here.  Unless  you  are  a  strong  non-­‐believer,  
sickness  and  encroaching  death  can  make  the  most  apathetic  spiritualist  come  to  
arms.  You  will  need  a  reason,  you  will  need  meaning,  you  will  need  more  than  
oblivion  as  an  alternative.  
  

Then  you  will  need  a  snack.  Many  people  bring  energy  bars  and  yogurt  cups.  

You  may  bring  whatever  you  want  and  can  keep  down.  You  will  want  to  remain  
sitting  after  snack.  You  will  be  exhausted.  Your  eyes  will  begin  to  close  and  you  will  
want  to  take  a  nap,  but  a  PT  will  come  over  and  check  your  oxygen  level  and  pulse  
and  ask  how  you  are  feeling.  They  do  not  want  an  honest  answer.  Nothing  short  of  
passing  out  will  get  you  out  of  the  work,  and  even  then  you  don’t  get  the  checkmark  
for  the  day.  And  you  need  lots  of  checkmarks  to  earn  your  new  lungs.  And  do  not  
think  throwing  up  is  the  golden  get-­‐out-­‐of-­‐work  card  it  once  was  in  your  younger,  
healthier  times.  I  have  seen  enough  vomit  cleaned  off  of  the  track  to  know  that  they  
don’t  care.  If  you  are  conscious  and  can  move  at  all,  they  want  you  to  move.  If  you  
can  help  it,  save  the  vomit  for  someone  who  will  think  is  still  means  something.  
  

You  will  have  to  dangle  the  potential  for  a  better  life  in  front  of  you  as  the  

carrot  that  forces  you  to  stand  up  from  your  snack.  Then  you  will  push  your  oxygen  
tank  over  to  a  NuStep  or  a  recumbent  bicycle,  fall  or  fold  into  the  machine,  and  look  
like  you  are  moving  for  twenty  minutes.  You  will  be  bored  again,  but  you  will  be  
exhausted  and  remember  how  dangerous  thinking  is,  so  you  will  turn  your  mind  off  
and  ride  in  the  no-­‐thought  bliss  of  apathy.  You  will  count  down  the  minutes  and  be  
proud  when  you  reach  zero  on  the  little  screen,  then  disappointed  when  you  realize  
both  that  you  have  to  get  off  of  the  machine  and  that  you  are  not  finished.  Now  you  
have  to  walk  the  track  for  30.  Walking  is  hard.  Your  lungs  hate  walking.  You  took  it  
for  granted  until  recently,  though  you  know,  even  if  you  could  time  travel,  you  
would  not  believe  your  own  warning  from  the  future,  your  own  caution  to  respect  

Until  You  Don’t  Anymore  

7  

what  you  have.  None  of  us  really  learn  any  other  way  than  by  personal  experience.  
You  will  shuffle  with  your  walker  around  the  track  among  others  in  your  similar  
situation  and  yet  in  their  own  worlds.  You  do  not  really  share  anything  with  them.  
You  will  go  around  and  around  the  gym,  seeing  and  not  seeing  people  work  for  their  
own  lives  too.  You  will  be  faster  than  some  and  slower  than  others.  You  will  hear  
passing  conversations  of  a  few  who  have  enough  breath  for  that.  You  will  hear  
people’s  earphones.  You  will  sometimes  chuckle  and  sometimes  be  annoyed  as  the  
Singer  Guy  passes  by  you  once  again.  Part  of  you  thinks,  “Yeah,  if  you  want  to  sing,  
why  care  about  the  dozens  of  people  around  you.  Be  who  you  are,”  and  the  other  
part  thinks,  “If  he  can  sing  so  damned  loudly,  why  the  hell  does  he  need  oxygen?  He  
could  show  a  little  respect  for  the  rest  of  us.”  Much  of  your  time  here  will  be  a  
confusing  mess  of  emotions.    
  

You  will  notice  there  are  a  few  young  people—thin,  small,  and  with  oxygen  

tanks  too.  You  will  think  they  are  quite  young,  like  ten  maybe,  and  you  will  think  
“poor  sick  kid”  even  though  you  are  a  “poor  sick  adult.”  Even  to  you,  sick  kids  are  
still  sadder.  You  have  two  daughters?  Then  it  will  be  that  much  harder  as  you  
superimpose  your  own  children’s  faces  onto  theirs.  You  will  be  surprised  to  find  out  
they  are  16,  22,  27.  You  will  not  believe  it.  Even  when  the  youngest  in  the  gym  has  
pink  stripes  in  her  dark  hair  and  a  lip  ring  under  her  oxygen  nosepiece,  you  will  
think  “poor  little  girl.”  Even  when  she  is  doing  all  she  can  to  grow  up,  despite  her  
disease  eating  away  her  muscle  mass  making  her  even  skinnier,  you  will  try  to  talk  
to  the  “sick  little  girl”  and  be  told,  a  little  too  loudly,  “I  can’t  hear  you.  No  hearing  
aids,”  as  she  points  to  her  purple  head  phones  with  black  skulls  on  the  ear  pieces  
that  you  can  tell  are  blaring  but  she  only  hears  a  little  of  the  bottom  beat.  You  will  
feel  uncomfortable  because  you  have  nothing  to  say  anyway,  you  just  feel  bad  that  a  
kid  is  as  sick  as  you.  No  one  ever  knows  how  to  handle  hearing  loss,  so  you  will  not  
feel  guilty  about  your  inability  to  communicate.  She’s  the  one  who’s  deaf,  you  will  
think.  You  will  then  notice  a  young  woman  walk  up  to  the  sick  kid  and  smile,  and  
start  signing  unknown  things  with  her  unwrinkled,  swift  moving  hands  that  are  well  
fed  and  pink  with  oxygen-­‐rich  blood  pulsing  through  to  the  tips.  You  will  look  down  

Until  You  Don’t  Anymore  

8  

at  your  own  hands,  and  notice  the  blueness  under  your  fingernails.  You  will  pause,  
and  try  to  remember  the  last  time  they  were  rosy  and  warm.    
You  will  look  back  up  and  notice  the  chalky-­‐faced  sick  kid  smile,  
miraculously,  and  open  up  just  enough  for  a  beam  of  life  to  escape  tired  eyes  and  
you  will  not  want  to  look  at  them  anymore.  You  will  feel  bad  for  hating  them,  
especially  the  emaciated  one,  for  smiling.  You  will  fight  your  resentment  for  the  
healthy  one  who  dares  to  flaunt  pink  cheeks  and  force  yourself  a  grimace,  hoping  it  
passes  for  a  weak  smile,  and  you  will  wheeze  out  to  the  woman,  “Tell  her  I  hope  she  
feels  better,”  even  though  you  know  they  are  empty  words.  No  one  ever  just  feels  
better  here.    You  will  turn  your  walker  around  and  out  of  the  corner  of  your  eye  
you’ll  see  hands  and  arms  moving,  but  you  will  have  no  idea  if  your  empty  words  are  
shared  or  not.  You  will  know  it  doesn’t  matter  either  way.  It  will  be  your  life  or  not  
that  you  leave  this  place  with.  You  may  learn  some  names,  some  diseases,  some  war  
stories  from  the  hospital,  but  there  are  no  friends  here.  No  one  has  anything  to  give.  
You  may  once  again,  but  walking  around  this  track  takes  all  you’ve  got  for  now.  You  
will  be  lucky  to  have  anything  at  all  for  your  family  tonight,  for  the  caregiver  that  
has  traveled  with  you.  You  have  no  room  for  friends.  You  will  soon  notice  old  faces  
disappearing,  new  ones  arriving.  You  will  learn  that  it  is  a  never-­‐ending  cycle  of  
patients,  and  the  PTs  are  the  only  ones  who  stay.  And  you  will  never  know,  most  of  
the  time,  if  someone  left  because  their  transplant  recovery  was  a  success,  or  because  
they  died.    
Here.  I  got  you  a  tissue.  That  was  a  big  coughing  fit.  Do  I  need  to  get  a  PT?  No?  
You  got  breath  back?  I’m  sorry.  I  know  I’m  laying  it  on  pretty  thick.  Guess  it’s  been  
hard  on  me  too,  the  past  year.    But  I  think  it’s  important  to  know  what  it’s  really  like  
to  show  up  day  after  day,  just  so  you’re  prepared.  Anyway,  we’re  almost  done.  Once  
you  complete  boot  camp,  what  they  call  “graduation,”  that  would  be  your  day.  But,  
unfortunately,  boot  camp  also  includes  twenty  lectures  you  are  required  to  attend.  
After  fighting  fatigue  for  nearly  three  hours,  after  months  and  maybe  years  of  
inactivity,  you  have  to  squeeze  into  a  small,  windowless  room  to  hear  “lectures”  and  
try  not  to  fall  asleep.  You  will  need  to  change  out  your  walker  again  for  a  smaller  
oxygen  tank  holder  because  there’s  no  room  for  all  the  bodies  and  their  full  

Until  You  Don’t  Anymore  

9  

equipment.  Some  tanks  hiss,  some  have  generators,  and  the  proximity  of  everyone  
fills  the  room  full  of  wheezing,  coughing,  gasping.  Only  patients  are  allowed  and  
attendance  is  taken.  Caregivers  have  their  own  lectures  earlier  in  the  day.  Both  
patient  and  caregiver  lectures  will  largely  be  useless.  If  they  trusted  you  to  read  the  
papers  they  gave  out,  they  would  not  need  these  regurgitation  sessions.  They  will  
draw  outlines  of  lungs  on  a  dry  erase  board  in  black  and  squiggle  lines  in  red  where  
surgeons  will  cut.  They  will  show  you  anatomical  posters  and  give  third-­‐grade  
definitions  of  the  most  common  lung  diseases.  They  will  use  a  skeleton  model  laid  
on  its  back  on  a  chair  to  show  you  how  they  will  lift  your  rib  cage  away  from  your  
body,  and  you  will  see  the  plastic  cartilage  stretch  and  you  will  feel  the  chill  down  
your  own  spine,  as  the  PT  points  with  a  pencil  the  different  places  they  might  make  
the  incision  to  pull  out  and  push  in  lungs.  You  will  learn  that,  while  lungs  have  to  
match  your  body  to  a  degree,  they  can  cut,  trim,  and  mold  the  donor  organ  to  your  
chest  cavity.  You  will  learn  about  blood  vessels,  and  bacteria,  and  what  rejection  
looks  like,  and  all  the  meds  you  will  be  on  for  the  rest  of  your  life  and  how  important  
proper  shoes  are  for  walking  and  how  the  donor  system  works  with  organ  matching  
and  about  the  ventilator  and  walking  the  next  day  after  surgery  and  when,  at  the  
end,  you  are  given  a  chance  to  ask  questions,  no  one  ever  does.  Maybe  because  half  
are  nodding  off  after  all  afternoon  fighting  inertia,  maybe  because  you  know  too  
much  as  it  is,  maybe  because  the  only  way  you  keep  going  is  to  not  think  about  it  too  
hard—to  put  your  body  in  the  hands  of  strangers  who’ve  spent  many  years  of  their  
life  becoming  an  expert  in  taking  diseased  lungs  out  and  putting  healthier  ones  in.  
Remember,  this  program  runs  like  a  machine.  You  cannot  think  hard  about  
the  medical  system,  about  how  much  trust  you  are  putting  into  this  hospital,  into  
pills,  into  policies.  You  cannot  think  about  how  much  this  is  costing  you,  your  family,  
even  with  medical  insurance,  because  there  are  many  different  types  of  payment.  
You  sit  there,  catching  your  breath,  trying  to  stay  awake  as  the  representative  from  
some  non-­‐profit  is  talking  about  why  they  are  raising  money  for  lung  transplant  
specific  research.  You  cannot  digest  the  fact  that  out  of  all  organs,  lungs  are  one  of  
the  least  successful  over  time.  You  take  the  info  sheets  passed  around,  you  look  at  
the  models,  you  hear  words,  you  wait  until  4:15  when  it  is  all  over  and  you  can  go  

Until  You  Don’t  Anymore  

10  

home,  or  the  hotel,  or  apartment  that  you  have  rented  for  the  duration  of  the  
transplant  process.  You  bargain  with  existence,  you  barter  for  days,  you  think,  “It  
will  all  get  better,  it  has  to.”  You  will  try  not  to  think  about  all  that  as  you  wait  for  
someone  to  help  you  into  your  car.  You  will  try  to  rest  up  and  be  back  tomorrow  to  
do  it  all  over  again.  
So  there  you  have  it.  What  I’ve  learned,  in  a  nutshell.  Even  describing  this  
place  is  exhausting.  Yeah,  I  know,  and  I’m  not  even  a  patient.  True,  caretakers  give  a  
lot,  but  it’s  different.  Oh,  hey,  look  who’s  finally  come  out  of  the  locker  room  –  
behind  you,  that’s  my  sister.  There,  she’s  seen  me  now.  Shit,  she  looks  tired.  I  need  to  
get  our  stuff  and  load  up.  Tomorrow  we  drive  home,  our  real  home.  Feels  like  a  long  
time.  Oh,  one  last  thing:    you  should  be  clear  about  what  you  are  working  for,  what  
makes  all  this  worth  it.  Yes,  “family,”  I  know.  That’s  always  a  big  one.  But  still,  you’re  
doing  the  work,  you  should  know  why.  Well  then,  nice  to  meet  you,  and  best  of  luck.  
You’re  going  to  need  it.  


