I have Prince’s hat.
It is an honest and discerning prêt-à-porter hat with a strong upstanding brim, finely
pummeled and blocked with a gored crown, a good smell and a row of chains hanging
down the front. The chains keep the hat on the head albeit wind and rain, so I call it my
wind and rain hat. My best buddy Prince calls it hat. I changed the name to wind and rain
hat for it is my hat and for my best buddy Prince permitted. I have the hat foremost and in
first order as my best buddy Prince asked for and has received my twenty bucks.
He goes, can I have your twenty bucks?
And I go, for what do you need my twenty bucks?
And he goes, to pay my phone bill.
And I ask myself, does Prince have a phone?
And I say, do you have a phone?
And he goes, yeah.
And I go, do you need a phone?
And he goes, yeah.
And I go, for what do you need a phone?
And he says, for my employment.
And I think, people need employment.
I go, people need employment.
And he goes, yeah.
And I think, for what do rock and roll performers need a phone?

I go, for what do rock and roll performers need a phone?
And he goes, for calling.
And I go, who for calling?
And he is quiet.
And he then goes, for calling people to come.
And I go, for people to come to your rock and roll performance?
And he goes, yeah.
And I think, I come to your rock and roll performance albeit a call.
So I go, my best buddy Prince. I come to your rock and roll performance albeit a call.
Yeah, you do, others don’t.
And I think, my best buddy Prince needs a phone.
You need a phone.
Yeah.
You need my twenty bucks.
Yeah.
So I gave him my twenty bucks.
And I see him a week later and we say our exchanges but he withdrawals without
mentioning my twenty bucks. And I let it go. But it was disturbing. You see, my best
buddy Prince is foremost and in first order, but my twenty bucks can only be my twenty
bucks. But as I repeat, I let it go.
And I see Prince a week later and claim my twenty bucks.
Prince. I claim my twenty bucks.
And he goes, I don’t have it.

And I go, Prince, did you not get currency after your rock and roll performance?
And he went, I get currency next week.
And I go, the rock and roll performance did not cut you a check on the day?
And he goes, no.
And I go, they did not give you a stipend?
And he goes, no.
A sample recompense?
And he goes, no.
A receipt?
And he goes, no.
A promise?
And he goes, no.
And I go, my best buddy Prince, did you request?
And he goes, no.
And I was quiet.
My best buddy Prince, you are meek.
And he goes, yeah.
And we were both quiet.
And he says, do you want my four bucks?
And I go, my best buddy Prince. I want my twenty bucks.
And he goes, I don’t have your twenty bucks.
And we were both quiet.
And he then goes, can I borrow your twenty bucks?

And I go, my best buddy Prince, you have my twenty bucks and now you request my
other twenty bucks. Together and as one, my old twenty bucks and my new twenty bucks
makes forty bucks.
And he goes, I need to pay my phone bill.
And I go, Prince, my old twenty bucks went to your old phone bill.
And he goes, yeah.
And I go, for what do you need my new twenty bucks?
And he goes, I have a new phone bill.
And I say, my best buddy Prince, how many phone bills do you have?
And he says, two.
Now again I am quiet, and I am not fond of quiet. So my current quiet was a sign of a
turmoil for you have to understand, Prince is a rock and roll performer. He performs rock
and roll regularly. And I know he performs to a camera and I know he performs to a
microphone and I know he performs to an audience. And I am familiar with owners of
cameras, microphones and audience venues and I know they compensate. Now I perform
in a house of worship, but I refrain compensation despite the existence of cameras,
microphones and an audience for this is my gift. And I understand my best buddy Prince
also performs at a house of worship and also refrains compensation, but also I know my
best buddy Prince accepts compensation from primary and additional secondary sources
for rock and roll performances and I know my best buddy Prince earns enough to return
my old twenty bucks, allow me to keep my new twenty bucks and pay two phone bills,
old and new.

Prince. I know you earn enough to return my old twenty bucks, allow me to keep my
new twenty bucks and pay your two phone bills, old and new.
And he goes, no.
Now again I am quiet. And I think, compensation is relevant, but my friendship with
my best buddy Prince is also relevant. So I go and let the old twenty bucks pass. And I
think, compensation effects friendship, and so I go no. I will not give out my new twenty
bucks.
I will not give out my new twenty bucks.
And he goes, for how come?
And I go, for the old twenty bucks.
And he goes, for how come the old twenty bucks?
And I go, for it is not in my hand.
And he goes, I pledge to return the old twenty bucks to your hand.
And I go, good.
And he goes, can I borrow your new twenty bucks?
And I go, I will not give out my new twenty bucks.
And he goes, for how come?
And I go, for the old twenty bucks.
And he goes, for how come the old twenty bucks?
And I am quiet, for the conversation is circular. And I think, my best buddy Prince
merits a detailed explanation.
My best buddy Prince, you merit a detailed explanation. I will not provide you my
new twenty bucks until my old twenty bucks is returned to this hand.

And I point to my own hand.
And he goes, do you want my four bucks?
And I go, no.
And he goes, do you want my hat?
And I go, no.
And he went, do you want my four bucks and my hat?
And I go, yeah. And now I have my best buddy Prince’s four bucks and hat. And I
repeat it is an honest and discerning prêt-à-porter hat with a strong upstanding brim,
finely pummeled and blocked with a gored crown, a good smell and a row of chains
hanging down the front. The chains cover the face and protect against thrown objects and
heavy gusts. I call it my wind and rain hat though my best buddy Prince calls it hat. I
determined I have the naming privilege for I have the possession, but I asked anyway,
and my best buddy Prince was fine with it.
Are you fine with it? I go.
And he goes, I am fine with it.


