I’m not a coward. I know they all think I am. Poor Larz can’t get a dumb shiny pearl. I’ll
show them. They’ll praise me and call me Larz the Snatcher.
Larz floated a yard above the lakebed, focusing on a pearl down below with his beady
eyes and bulbous lips. His slick amber fins glistened in the wan streaks of light piercing from
above, exposing his biscotti-colored scales glimmering with alternating hues.
It was him versus the pearl in the center of a coral pink flapping shell monster he called
Shelly. The shell opened, releasing bubbles from its side, then it slammed shut.
Bam!
A wave of energy spread around Shelly from the impact. Larz flinched, flapping his puny
fins. He took the moment to calm his nerves, soaking in the lake’s tranquility. The shell opened.
Miniature bubbles formed and popped one after the other.
The pearl sparkled in Larz’s eyes. He believed it was the treasure that would gain his
school’s respect, and all he had to do was build the courage to face his fears.
The shell slammed shut once again with a thunderous sound, loud enough to make Larz
twist. His stomach gurgled as he released a faint gas and shifted his rhombus-shaped body to
look back at his friends just before turning away.
No! I can’t look back. They’ll laugh at me, call me a coward. I’m not a coward. Would a
coward do this?
Larz busted out of his stagnant state and sliced his way through the translucent water. His
eyes remained locked on the prize, fuming with the intent to succeed.
Open! Open! Open!
Larz sped as the force of the current brushed along his scales. The shell popped open as
bubbles released. Larz broke through them with ease and lunged toward his prize. He opened his
protrusible mouth as wide as he could and locked his lips on the pearl. He felt the spherical
perfection as he pictured his friends in amazement with bulging eyes and dropped jaws.
The school of awe.
Shelly reacted to the pearl’s disappearance, snapping its shell closed. The shell’s impact
grazed Larz’s tail, breaking him out of his comical imagery of a plethora of googly eyes watching
him in astonishment.
He cried, shooting the pearl into the crack of a large rock buried in the lakebed. As the
torn piece of Larz’s tail fin sank to Shelly chomping away.
Oh, no!


Larz floated upward, avoiding Shelly’s ruthless attacks from down below. He sensed the
beast dragging its body with the force of each shell drop, pounding onto the lakebed. Larz
swiveled through the water, lunging face-first into the cracked rock, scraping his scales up against
its gritty edges until light ceased to exist.
Larz forced himself deep enough to be squeezed between the rock, preventing him from
moving any further. Through the darkness, he opened his mouth wide and slurped in the pearl’s
vicinity. He added more force each time until he felt a similar spherical perfection grace his lips.
A sudden flash of light sparked from deep within the rock, exposing a burrow.
Larz failed to release himself from the rock’s clutches. The gritty edges held him in place
long enough to witness a second spark of light flash down below. He tossed and turned furiously,
grinding his scales against the rock and locking his fins. Jerking to his right, the pressure released,
allowing him to pull himself out.
His eyes swelled with excitement as the school wiggled back and forth, continuing on their
route. Larz took their movement as a sign of appreciation. With the pearl gripped onto his lips,
Larz rotated his body several times in celebration.
I did it! Larz the snatcher is born! Snatchy! Oh, I like that better!
A slithering electric mutant emerged out of the crack in the rock, zig-zagging its way to
Larz with a burst of light emanating from it.
The school ahead continued swimming away even after Larz came to a stop. His eyes
aimed upward in confusion as the fiend drew near.
Where is everyone going? I’m not a coward… don’t they see I’m not a coward?
The school picked up their pace, forcing Larz to race toward them.
The electric mutant pursued him, letting out another spark while opening its mouth wide,
revealing sharp, devilish fangs.
Shelly trudged along the lakebed, opening underneath the mutant.
The slithering fiend stopped and looked down inside the open shell, spotting an oval
gooey substance. The fangs penetrated the goo and ripped it out of Shelly’s core. The shell
gradually sealed as the fiend chowed down on the blubbery delight then snaked back to where
it came from.
Larz made his way toward the school with a sense of accomplishment, completely
unaware of Shelly’s fate.
Why are they all freaking out? I got the pearl. Shelly had nothing on me. I’m Snatchy!


Larz turned back out of pure curiosity as a faint vapor seeped out of Shelly, but all he
witnessed was Shelly’s color drain from a rich coral pink to an ashen gray. Without a second
thought, Larz spat the pearl out and watched it sink to the lakebed. He flapped his fins and
sprinted toward his school while fighting off the throbbing pain down his spine.
You see! I told you I could do it! From this moment forth, my name is Snatchy!

~~~~~~~~
Larz glided through the azure water, sweeping his way into formation. He waded
between the shoalers as they all swam in unison. Larz swelled with joy but couldn’t understand
why no one wanted to celebrate with him.
The school drifted together toward their next venture for edibles.
His master plan to gain their respect had failed.
He plotted a second strategy by envisioning himself leading the enormous school to a
cavern of tiny, colorful zooplanktons. His stomach grumbled at the savory image in his mind.
Larz believed the feast would be the ultimate key to his friends’ hearts.
Brief images of praise and glory formed right until he felt his tail smacked up against a
fellow shoaler’s head. An excruciating pain sprung from his wounded tail following the impact.
Larz grimaced as he spun around, breaking formation, and attempted to apologize.
Oh my… Jimmy, are you alright?
Jimmy’s brown scaled body twitched as his left eye struggled to open from the blow.
Larz thrust toward him, but Jimmy instinctively lunged himself ahead of the group.
The school took his urgency as a sign of danger and cut through the water with intent.
Larz’s jaw dropped as he watched the school flee in panic.
He sliced through the thick water, but a resounding jolt of pain shot from his tail once
again. Larz yelled for their attention, but it only resulted in bubbles spewing. Realization came
over him and he stopped in shame. His desperation would never work because it never did,
though it didn’t prevent him from watching his former school of familiars drift into the dark
depths of the lake while dropping his lower lip.
This was how the story always played out for Larz. No one ever responded. Larz’s life
wasn’t based on communication. It was the life of one school to another. Names were
irrelevant. He considered it humorous because it helped him get through the day.
So, it didn’t matter that yesterday his name was Lumpy. The day before that, Carl, the
day before that, Rancher, and the list went on. Today, Larz chose a new name… Snatchy, but in
his heart he always had a soft spot for the name Larz. It was an acronym standing for Lenny,
4

Underwater

Arnie, Ruckus, and Zane. They were part of his first group of shoalers, which he named quite
some time ago. Though his memory of them had grown vague, he subconsciously engraved
their names in his mind.
Larz was alone once again without family or friends. He stared into the abyss as his
stomach grumbled. His dorsal fin slumped, longing to fit in and desiring to understand why he
was so different.
His fondest family memory was coursing through the water with a school large enough
that could mimic the size of a whale. They stood together with no form of communication
besides telepathy and gestures, which was a formality Larz didn’t comprehend. So when his
first school scavenged for enough food to disperse, he didn’t make it back in time. The leaders
had no clue, because to them, he was just another number. One of the thousands amongst the
school. Poor Larz didn’t stand a chance.
An opal hovered past him, waving its frail, olive-green arms and legs. Noticing Larz
gawking at him, the opal defensively absorbed its body into its impenetrable oval brown shell
with black streaks.
Larz frowned as yet another potential friend descended into the depths of the lake,
evading him like the plague. Not even an opal wanted to stick around. That was a new low for
Larz, considering they were the slowest species around.
Every time he disbanded from a school, chagrin burned from the inside with such
intensity it became hard to accept moving on. So, the only solution through his eyes was to
pretend.
As he waited for a sign of a school to draw near him, he continued scanning the
surrounding area. His wound throbbed as a constant reminder. He knew swimming on was
going to be a struggle regardless, but it couldn’t stop him. His life depended on schools for
survival.
The apprehension came over him with the thought of predators spotting him aimlessly
floating about. His fins flapped out and froze in place. His body shivered as he waded to the left.
There was nothing in sight besides floating reeds, woodchips, and sediment.
The soft light penetrating the gleaming surface of the lake dimmed as Larz floated about
with caution. He was no rookie to the murky feeling, but it always developed a certain amount
of anxiety. Being a loner meant dealing with anxiety and acclimating.
At night, Larz’s neuromast would kick in. It allowed him to feel his surroundings. He
always loved the sensation of being protected by his imaginary force field. He’d often joke
about daring anyone to come his way, but today was different. Larz didn’t possess the speed to
flee on his own. With inconsistent and jittery movements, he feared predators would consider

5

Underwater

it a sign of weakness. He had to calm himself. Larz flapped his fins steadily and took in the
smooth fresh water through his gills.
I miss Lenny, Arnie, and Ruckus. They probably miss me too. What if they’ve been
searching for me this whole time? Maybe this entire world is a gigantic circle and I’m going
further and further away?
Larz turned around, and even though he could only sense his surroundings, he
pretended to see a light. Larz drifted toward it as excitement graced his face. The blinding light
grew wider with a bleach white core. Out of the light sprung a small army of hobblers
representing the same color scales as Larz. They strode in unison, as Larz imagined them
muttering, “Snatchy!”
Lenny! Arnie! Ruckus! Oh, I missed you all! Did you see me snatch that pearl!? I was a
magifican! Just like Zane! But Zane has nothing on me. See!
Larz rotated, waving his tail back and forth, ignoring the pain. The school drifted by
without acknowledging him at all, but it didn’t faze Larz as he continued to tell his story.
I have a scar to prove it! I’m a magifican! See! See!
The school continued as Larz joined the formation. Others in the school spotted him and
created a small gap. He hopped right in, synchronizing with them.

~~~~~~~~
Larz traveled, scouring the lake with his new school. As his vision cleared and his senses
revealed the variety amongst the shoal, he wasn’t even fazed. His moment of relief had
overcome all forms of logic. He swam joyously amongst the group of strangers at a pace he was
ecstatic about.
This was the first school that nonchalantly coasted through the water. They were
composed of various scales, sizes, and colors. One of the fellow members was a mauve tone
with a brown trimmed outline. Larz gravitated to the female companion and called her Mindy.
As Larz went by scouting, his stomach grumbled once again.
This school was unique, but their pace would soon mean grave danger without
nutrition. Larz thrust toward the front of the school, breaking synchronization. He hoped it
would have the same effect Jimmy caused when he bolted.
Larz fought the pain and pushed himself to the very front of the assembly. There, he
met with the largest of the variety of scales, a meaty charcoal gray behemoth. He was twice the
size of Larz and moved with half the pace. Slow and steady was a nice concept to Larz from time
to time but not when his belly came roaring. His effort had little to no effect on the school; they
had just waltzed their way from point A to point B.

6

Underwater

He grew impatient until he witnessed a slick brown slithering Swiggly Wiggly penetrating
the surface above.
It floated, squirming back and forth.
Larz’s eyes scintillated with joy. He turned to the behemoth to his right and chuckled,
knowing he would be no competition for Snatchy.
A Swiggly Wiggly! Oh! Lenny, Arnie, Ruckus! It’s a Swiggly Wiggly! What? You think I’m a
coward! Why would you say that, Zane? I’ll show you!
The school paid no attention to the floating Swiggly Wiggly that showed no sign of
sinking. It appeared like a gift from the sacred above that called for Larz.
The Swiggly Wiggly tossed and turned from the impact of the current. Its thick juicy
gummy layers of auburn flesh swayed as an aura of glistening light surrounded it.
Larz sprung to the defenseless meal.
I’m not a coward! You all think I’m a coward! Slow Snatchy can’t get himself his own
Swiggly Wiggly! Well, I’ll show you all! That’s my Swiggly Wiggly!
The comments toward his newfound school did not affect them at all, and his mental
hunger neglected to even debate it.
Larz pursued his prey, fighting the throbbing pain generating from his tail. His eyes were
locked in on what would be his first Swiggly Wiggly.
The meal swayed with the current until a sudden jolt rose it closer to the surface.
Larz’s eyes widened as he figured his time was depleting.
No! That’s my Swiggly Wiggly!
Larz diced through the murky water, reaching a speed he couldn’t even fathom. A trail
of billowing white foam developed behind him as he opened his mouth wide. The Swiggly
Wiggly showed little to no signs of life and didn’t even make a peep as Larz swallowed the
gummy delight whole.
As elation overcame Larz, so did the most agonizing pain he had ever experienced.
Crimson liquid spewed from his mouth, merging with the azure essence of the water. Larz
panicked as he tasted the sweet, chewy core of the Swiggly Wiggly accompanied by the metallic
taste of blood. Larz squealed in pain, a sound he had never known he could make. His body
flapped back and forth with the urgency of the damned.
The piercing jolt of pain intensified as he attempted to pull away. If tears could be shed,
he would’ve overflowed the lake. The more ruthless he became, the redder his aura grew. Larz
shouted for help in agony as the surface above came closer and closer.
7

Underwater

Lenny! Arnie! Help! Oh, please! I’m sorry… I know I wasn’t a great friend. I know I never
fit in. I couldn’t keep up. I didn’t want to. I’m sorry! Ruckus please! Help me! I don’t want this. I
don’t want this! Zane! Zane! I’m a coward. I’m a coward! Zane!
Larz’s desperation was fruitless as the school below vanished into the abyss. When
Larz’s rhombus body emerged out of his environment, asphyxiation took the reins. His lustering
scales dripped with the remains of the lake, emptying from his core. Inhaling was inefficient and
struck him with shards of pain, quadrupling the effects of Shelly’s wound. The agony developed
into a desperation that depleted his remaining energy within mere seconds.
He witnessed a world unlike any other. A tall unreachable surface high above with the
resemblance of the azure lake’s complexion surrounded by an array of soft puffy alabaster
edibles, and an orb of scintillating gold watching its colorful companions.
Larz embraced the beauty above as his scales dried and his throat congealed with
crimson ooze. In his final moments, he felt an unfamiliar surface, one that was indestructible,
resembling the brownness of the Swiggly Wiggly and with jagged edges on his feeble physique.
He pattered the surface as an irrevocable act of desperation, but it had little to no effect.
An enormous olive-skinned creature with lanky arms, thick claws, and five radials
attached to them, forced itself into Larz’s mouth and yanked out a long-hooked needle. The
needle dropped onto the hardened surface, clanging into Larz’s ear.
Though fear had overwhelmed Larz, he continued to fight, walloping onto the ground
with all of his strength.
The claws opened wide, revealing a bleached center with a countless amount of creases
throughout. The breadth of the claw extended over Larz with the weight of the world,
paralyzing him. Within seconds, Larz retired his will to fight.

~~~~~~~~
“There you go, boy!” an overzealous, broad-shouldered man with a thick scruffy beard
cheered. He patted his son on the back, lurching him forward.
The young student turned to his mentor with a pleasant grin as he scooped up the
biscotti-colored carp off the surface of the boat.
His elated father joked, “Tonight, Carpe Di Yum!” The boy chuckled, tossing the carp into
their blue bucket, filled to the brim with fish.
The ecstatic father couldn’t seem to wipe the smile off his face as he tipped his beige
bucket hat at the young apprentice. “I remember my first catch. Not nearly as big as yours, but
it was one hell of a feeling. Whoa!”
The boy’s youthful face perked up as his identical hat shaded his eyes.

8

Underwater

The father stomped rhythmically onto the bottom boards of the dinghy, making his boy
chuckle. “Do you feel that?”
The boy emulated him with excitement coursing through him as the vibration almost
took the hat off his head.
The father continued stomping and then tilted his head back with a vacuuming inhale,
sniffing the aroma of the lake. “Do you smell that?”
They sniffed away at the putrid scent of scales drying to their misfortune.
“You’re a fisherman, my boy!” The father leaned forward, pressed his palm up against
the boy’s head, and rubbed vigorously in celebration.
The boy swelled with enjoyment, producing a laugh loud enough to reverberate
throughout the lake.
The father took a seat on the boat while reaching for a small, red and white cooler. He
flicked open the top and snatched a can of orange soda. The tab popped open, followed by the
refreshing sound of fizzle as a light overflow of orange foam spilled out.
The boy jumped for joy, rocking the boat from side to side with a smile stapled to his
face. He received his reward as his father grabbed his own favorite lite beer.
The boy sipped at the overflowing foam as his father waved his finger from side to side,
“No, no, remember.”
The startled son froze as his father tapped the bottom of the orange soda can,
insinuating his child should raise the can. He followed suit as the sound of a second pop and
fizzle sang.
The father thrust his can up against his boy’s, clashing the beverages together with
enough force to erupt potable rain. “Cheers!”
The boy arched his head back while resting the lip of the can into his mouth. The sugar
and fizzle gulped down his throat without pause.
The father watched his boy draining the fluid with ease until he came to a halt.
The boy reacted by forcing the can from his lips and grasping his throat.
The father chuckled, sipping away at his golden hops as his boy felt the immediate
carbonation burn. “Who taught you to drink like an animal? Pace yourself, boy.”
The misty-eyed boy, remained absorbing the sting in his throat with a simultaneous
cough and chuckle.

9

Underwater

The father took the time from his son’s brief struggle to dock the boat, paddling the
dinghy to the shore.
By the time the boy recovered, he had already taken several more sips and was
pondering whether he would be allowed to have a second.
His father caught the curious look in his son’s eye and denied with a vigorous shake of
the head.
The boy took his last sips while gazing over at his father with a furrowed brow and
dejected eyes.
shore.

His father ignored the desperate attempt as the hull of the dinghy scraped onto the dirt

Once they came to a full stop, the father pulled out his stainless steel fillet knife
enclosed in its plastic sheath. “Today’s the day you become a man, boy. We are going to gut
those bad boys and have ourselves a feast. What do you think about that, boy?”
The boy jumped with excitement, flinging the empty can out of his hands and onto the
vibrant bed of grass several feet away. He hooted with a simultaneous burp that widened his
eyes in shock. After a brief pause, they both chortled. The boy had always wanted to use his
father’s knife for just about anything. If he knew all he had to do was catch a fish, he would’ve
attempted it months ago.
He was moments away from scaling his first fish at only eight years old.
His father flipped the sheathed blade onto his palm and extended the handle toward his
son, gripping the covered blade portion with a grin wider than a watermelon slice. As his son
reached for it, the father pulled away.
The boy responded with a pouty look on his face and drooping eyes.
The father squinted his eyes and deepened his voice, imitating a sergeant, as he
explained, “This is not a toy. You got that?”
The boy nodded.
His father used the handle of the blade to point toward the can his son had littered.
“Now, pick that can up. We aren’t slobs.”
can.

Obeying his father’s command, the boy hopped off the boat and collected the empty

His father carried a thick wooden cutting board with the blue bucket toward a nearby
flat top rock. He placed the sheathed knife to the side of the rock.

10

Underwater

The boy grabbed hold of his first catch and plopped it down onto the board. With an
endearing smile lifting his youthful cheeks, the boy accepted his father’s knife.
him.

The moment he gripped the polymer handle, he felt an impulse of power surge through

His father motioned where and how to cut the carp. He placed his left palm over the
carp’s head and imitated the motion of the blade with his right, pressing his fingers up against
one another, crossing the rhombus body from gill to tail.
gill.

The boy took a deep breath, held down the carp’s head, and inserted the blade into the

An undulating faint vapor sprung from the carp’s core, masked by a sweet aromatic
scent followed by putrid fish odor.
The boy covered his nose with his forearm and forced the blade down the carp’s belly in
a drawing motion as the scales lost the essence of their altering hues. The boy grinned at the
lifeless meal, but the carp’s eye never lost focus of its predator.

~~~~~~~~
Why are those opals so big and intimidating? This doesn’t make any sense.
Larz reacted with a puzzled thought to the still image pinned up against a sapphire
painted wall. The image showed four enlarged masculine opals from head to toe sporting
different colored bandanas: red, blue, purple, and orange. The opals’ mysterious
transformation baffled Larz. They now appeared to have arms and legs extending out two to
three feet from their shells and claws large enough to hold weapons.
The blue one crossed two shiny metallic rods against one another. The red one had two
short spears gripped firmly with a mean look in his eyes. The orange one laughed as he gripped
two handles chained to one another, and the purple one held a long wooden pole.
Larz failed to grasp the reality he had been witnessing and soon pondered why the opals
weren’t moving.
“Those are The Ninja Turtles,” a welcoming silvery voice interrupted Larz’s
concentration.
Larz was startled, but incapable of maneuvering. His conscience remained alert, but his
senses seemed to have vanished.
The voice spoke a second time, “Leonardo is my favorite! He’s the blue one.” A long
stick-like figure came into focus with a lanky claw and four radials curled inward. The fifth one
aimed at the large blue bandana-wearing opal.

11

Underwater

Leonardo? Ninja Turtles?
The friendly voice chuckled as Larz’s surroundings altered.
Larz soon realized he was no longer in the water, despite the sapphire walls and
mutated opals. He saw the claws-not one, but two-grab hold of a fluffy imitation of the blue
opal… Leonardo. He had vibrant green skin, two handles for the metallic rods on his back, and a
friendly smile pasted onto his face.
The voice explained, “See, Leonardo!” The claws motioned both of Leonardo’s arms up
and down then bobbed his head back and forth, while the voice altered into a raspier tone, “I’m
Leonardo. I slice and dice the baddies. Ya, ha, wa!” The voice broke character and started
chortling.
Leonardo looks cool! Do you think Leonardo and I can be friends?
“You and Leo? Of course!”
The ardent response built an instinctual comfort within Larz. He didn’t understand
where or when he was, but the charming voice and exuberant nature appeared promising.
The silvery voice continued, “Leonardo and I are best friends. We go everywhere
together.”
The image lowered, facing downward at a lakebed of yarn, which was accompanied with
an overwhelming sorrow.
The tone of the silvery voice saddened, “Except for today… Daddy didn’t want me to
bring Leo to the boat.”
The sensation Larz felt corresponded with the disheartened tone from the friendly
voice. It was an emotion he recognized all too well but couldn’t recall why. The history of his
previous life had been dwindling unexpectedly. He remembered living underwater, swimming,
and hunting for pebbles of food protruding out of the lakebed. Then, it all went blank.
The voice peaked, “I’m sad because Leo didn’t get to see me catch my first fish, and now
I think he’s mad at me. It wasn’t my fault.”
Larz didn’t understand the context of the story very much, but he was familiar with the
feeling. He knew how important it was to share a story with a friend, and how rewarding it
could make someone feel. So he diverted to his old way.
I was there. I saw you catch your first fish. You were amazing! Best fish catcher I’ve ever
seen!

12

Underwater

The voice chortled once again, as the chagrin in his heart turned to a cooling sensation
that Larz shared. The voice spoke enthusiastically, “You were there! So you saw me reel her in. I
was like, ‘You’re mine, baby!’”
The arms and claws motioned something unfamiliar to Larz, but he felt at ease
experiencing it. The elated voice exclaimed, “And you saw me use the Tanto Knife. I was a
natural! Wasn’t I?”
It’s like you were born to do it. Slice and Dice!
The voice laughed as it chanted, “Yeah. Slice and dice!”
Larz watched the claws swing back and forth as the two shared identical emotions of
warmth and endearment. He didn’t understand what had happened to his old self, but for this
very moment, it didn’t matter.
The voice was ecstatic as they pranced around the room that Larz had been
experiencing for the first time. He saw images high on the wall with more lanky figures with
various complexions. One wore a blue top with yellow buttons pinned to the cotton fabric, fat
white covered claws, and a bright red cap with an “M” in the center. His smile was so inviting,
Larz couldn’t wait to hear more about him.
The voice became silent as Larz’s vision flew back and focused on the sapphire ceiling.
Their bodies landed on a soft cushion as an even fluffier cushion rested on the back of their
head.
The image locked onto the ceiling right before the voice calmly asked, “So… what’s your
name?”
You can call me Larz.
“Nice to meet you, Larz. My friends call me Ralphy.” The voice cleared its throat and let
out an innocent cough before muttering, “Can I ask you something?”
Of course, anything.
“Will you be my friend?”
Larz dug deep into his emotional thought process as he remained locked out of the
reaction the old him would’ve given.
Long concentrated breaths ensued as the voice’s silence lingered.
A sense of loneliness scudded through the air, gracing Larz with a familiar sentiment. If
only all those times before could come to fruition, he would know how gratifying his next words
would’ve been.
Yes. I’ll be your friend.

13

Underwater

14


