It’s almost time!

My eyes are getting moist as I beg the phone to ring.

I
wonder if you’re walking toward your phone. Maybe it’s in your hot sweaty hands right
now.

I know you’re slow when dialing my number.

thrill.

You told me that’s part of the

Well, if you call now, it’ll be over at twelve minutes past four.
I wear shorts, no matter the weather, and now I’m moving so quickly in my

rocking chair, the wood seat is biting my thighs. I enjoy the feel of bare wood scraping
my skin.

It takes my mind away from the waiting.

If you call now, it’ll be over at four

thirty-three.
Scraped thighs no longer satisfy me so I begin to pace.

Four steps toward the

couch and three steps back. When I finally get to my sofa, I sprawl on it, while staring
at the bronzed digits of my grandfather clock.
It’s now seven minutes to five. Call now.
take you long to come. That’s what you said.

It’ll be over soon because it doesn’t

As soon as your seed spills, you don’t

need me for a week. Did you find another? Someone more willing to listen to your
filth? That can’t be.
found one so quickly.

No one is better at this than me! Besides, you couldn’t have
It’s only been six days since the last call and that’s not long

enough. Or is it?
I stare at my painting of her near the wall clock. Reaching over I begin stroking
it. This painting is a small one of her, a tall black feather with gold flecks. She’s an
Egyptian goddess called Ma‘at. Sometimes she’s portrayed as a brown woman in full
queen regalia, gold armbands, braided black wigs,

heavy necklaces of jewels. Other

times she’s a feather, generally a long thin ebony one, narrow on top and full at the
bottom, like me. Dad always talked about ancient Egypt and the Gods that ruled their
world. Ma’at is truth, order, balance. She’s harmony, yin and yang. The way things
should be.

If Ma’at didn’t exist, the universe would be thrown into chaos. She helps

all who worship her. That’s her duty.
I bolt toward the ringing phone.
“Hello?”

I’m sad because I thought it was him but it’s always nice to hear the

assured warm voice of a friend. “Hi Steve,” I shyly say.

“It’s great that-you want to do

what?”
“It’s a double bedroom with a fireplace, baby,” he said.
“Wow! The place sounds fierce. Sure, I can go to Cape May with you this
weekend,” I said.

“This is wonderful! I’ll meet you at the club. Bye, sweetie.”

September is turning out to be a great month. Though it began by looking
through my neighbors’ garbage for food I forgot about being patient last Tuesday and
made a desperate phone call to Hutchins Advertising.
assignment!

I got that graphic art

A partial payment from them and the return of a loan I made to an old

friend gives me that giddy feeling excess money brings out.

If I’m careful, and this time

I will be careful, the income from the Hutchins assignment can last three months. To
top it off, yesterday after settling my bill at Pearl’s, the owner offered me a stack of odd
size canvases at a steep discount. I
know I have to pay for all this good luck.
you, you obscene phone-calling nut.

It’s my duty.

That’s why I’m tolerating

I give the ringing phone an evil glance.

It’s about time.

I know you like formality, so after picking up this time I remember to say, “Good
evening sir.

I‘m so cold because I’m only wearing pink panties while standing by an

open window.

Do I have your permission to move?” The silence frightens me.

Instantly I knew I made a mistake. Who’s calling? Finally I heard a long “Oh,” filled
with shock, hesitancy, excitement.
“Well, it’s you, Larry,” I replied.

He’s my sometime agent and friend.

“Why would you answer a phone like that?” Larry sounds like he can barely
stay in control. “Are you doing this for Steve?

Isn’t he too square to enjoy it?

Unlike me.”
Forcing myself to be sharp I said, “Never mind!”

Immediately Larry began

talking about the reception for South African artists Skoto gallery was giving. He
managed to persuade them to put me on the Board of Trustees but it came at a cost.
I’m surprised by what he’s saying and can’t understand how things went wrong.
“They couldn’t have gone through that money in a month,” I said. “All
right, maybe it’s been two months, but you know I don’t have much cash.
expenses, too. All right.

I got

I said all right! I‘ll get the money ready.”

Damn, why does Larry have to cause problems? Why do I always have to pay
for refreshments? I should have yelled more, but that’s not me. Besides it looks so
good on my resume to say I’m a financial backer for Skoto gallery. So what if I’m just
one of some who are buying the eats. When I go to the receptions, I can talk about my art
and maybe something good will happen.

It’s been working so far. Larry introduced

me to Steve, so I have a duty to help him.
Why don’t you call, fucker?
I pat my pictures of Ma’at and then check the time on one of my clocks.
collect them too, and the Aztec one reads twenty minutes to six.
despair. Why haven’t you called?
waiting is driving me crazy.

I

I cover my face in

You usually do between four and seven. This

You’ve been good to me so far.

I found a great job, my

loan got repaid, I think Steve is falling in love with me and my painting is almost done.
All because of you. You make me suffer and that makes me produce. You can’t leave
but if you’re gone, great.

I hate you, greaser! But if you do leave, the bad news is I’ll

have to find another problem to suffer from. That’s the way Ma’at wants it.
I move the sleeve of my sweater further up and turn my arm to its side. They’re
fading, but I can still see scars from the knife I scraped my arm with.
this apartment.

When the rental agent saw my arm, she thought I was abused and I got

put on the short list for this place.
with good.

That’s how I got

When something bad happens to me, I‘m rewarded

That‘s how it works.

I'm remembering how I learned about Ma’at and how she could help me but I
don’t want to.

If only there’s something I could distract my mind with, but there’s no

phone call, nothing needs cleaning and I’m too stressed to paint.

If I can’t find

something soon…my memories are going to get so strong, I…it’s too late.

I‘m not in

my home anymore. My mind has taken me to my mother's kitchen and I'm nine.
"You have to eat more, especially candy, Marie,” Father would tell me, “You
need to be round.” Gleefully, I told myself to eat whatever he gave me.

I’d anything

for him because no one had a dad who could answer any question put to him, except me.
“Why is there so much sand over there,” I asked.
“Does ‘over there’ have a proper name?”
“Yes. Egypt.” That’s my favorite place right now. As soon as I saw those
triangles on that sand, especially the one with the worn out face, pyramids and the
Sphinx, I wanted to know all about that country.
“The sun gets so hot it bleaches the land white and breaks the soil into tiny pieces
until its sand,” Dad answered. “C’mon, Marie.

It’s time.”

I kick my shoes off and pull my pants down. There are some things about
ancient Egypt I didn’t understand, like why they have so many Gods, but Dad will tell
me. He always answers my questions.

Except why, after Mom leaves for night

school, I have to walk around only in my panties.
Dad finishes putting away his paints. He comes closer, arms open.

He loves

to hug me when I’m just in my panties, his fingers touching the elastic bands of my
underwear or stroking my inner thighs. It tickles, but when I look up at him to share my
smile, his face is stern and sweaty.
“You’re scaring me,” I said.
“Don’t be. This happens to all good girls.”
“What does?”
Instead of answering he walks down the hall, stopping briefly to put away his
canvases and easel. He then picks me up, opens my door and tosses me in.
on the bed, I happily shrieked, “Bedtime! I know everything.

As I land

It’s too early, isn’t it?”

“No.

It’s best to do it early.”

“What?”
He whispers again not to be scare and lays down beside me. He never did that
before. He was so close, nearly on top of me.
“I’ll give you things, tomorrow for doing this now, chocolate or kewpie dolls.”
“Chocolate. Mmmm. M&Ms?”
“Sure. A lot of good things start with M. Like this.” Grabbing a feather
that’s sticking out of my pillow, he tickles my nose, places the feather next to me and
then slowly moves his hand down my tummy.
“Feathers don’t start with M, Dad.”
“Ma’at does.”
“Who?”
“Ma’at, an Egyptian goddess. She makes good things happen to people who
obey.

Will you obey me? ”
“I always do, Dad. Why you asking?”
“Then come here.

And don’t scream.”

I had no reason to, though Dad is getting strange.

He’s moving his hand up and

down my legs and now he's stroking his...his...crotch. That's what he said it is.
Because I don’t know what he‘s doing I bury my face in my pillows and wait
for something to happen, that I could understand.
I love how my pillow smells. Nana, Mom’s mom, made us pillows and sent
them from Trinidad, before she went to heaven. Mom said we have to redo the seams

because they got loose and the lavender and feathers that Nana put in them keeps coming
out.

As I buried my face deeper in the pillow a big black feather keeps tickling my

nose. Pulling it out I loudly say, “Achoo!”
“How did you get a cold, darling?”
why she came home early.

That question came from Mom.

I wonder

I could hear the heels of her shoes clicking as she walked

toward my door.
That noise made Dad bolt from my room. I didn’t know then but I know
now what Ma’at saved me from.
I can still see the morning after that night when washing dishes with Mom my
who cares comments on what Father did

last night made most of the dishes fall. He

stopped putting me to bed. Mom stopped going out. She got strange too, opening my
bedroom door at night, slamming it against the wall, peering in angrily.

A brief distant

smile was the only comfort she would give.
Home is different now. Father hating me for telling, I hating Mom for not
understanding and Mom calmly saying with tears rolling down her face that she hated me
and father and wished herself dead.
Father left after a few days.

I wished he took me with him.

I hate how Mom

looks at me now, staring at me like I’m taking her food and drink. The way she looks at
my hands while I’m drawing, makes my fingers burn and I start crying for relief.
That’s when she would say, “You owe me. Don‘t remind me of him, promise!”

I did.

But whenever I grab pencil or ink, crayon or paint, paper or cardboard, Mom’s back gets
stiff and her eyes narrow.

She doesn’t want me to draw anymore but I can’t help it.
better girl.

It makes me a

I do well at school and I can make a joke out of anything. Though I’m too

afraid to touch her, I would dance around Mom laughing, just like Dad.

I became Dad,

the good part of him. That’s when Mom would start remembering everything about the
man she loves but could not have, so her hands became unforgiving fists.
Now I’m back in my home and I’m so grateful those childhood images vanished.
Seeing only my apartment, I glance wearily at the grandfather clock.
Twenty minutes past seven.

Goddamn!

I throw off my clothes and change into something tight.

After a splash of

perfume and a heavy smear of dark red lipstick, I coax myself out of the door and onto a
train.
He always calls by seven.
find someone else.

He left me, that’s what he did and I got to

Someone who’ll hurt me, threaten me, make me feel sad. If bad

things happen, I’m rewarded with good.

I know that’s true. When I was fourteen, I let

my neighbor touch me while we stood in the dim hallway.

I timed it just right. His

wife was pulling the cart filled with laundry up the stairs as he did it and the money he
slipped

into my pocket to quiet me was enough to pay for the art lessons Brooklyn

Museum gave. Those lessons got me into college.
The rush hour is on.

I

’m going to Manhattan. Since most are going the

other way I’m able to find a seat in the first car near the front window next to the
operator’s door.

I unbutton my coat and cross my legs so he can see my figure. He

was a heavy set man and we glance at each other warily but he made no move toward me.

After waiting for him to act, I ignore him and look out the window watching the blue, red
and green lights move past and gradually merge into a blurry white glow.
I’m not going through another dry spell.

I remember the last one. Nothing

went right because nothing was wrong. Too quickly, I ran out of jobs, money and hope.
I felt I was getting buried, so I picked on my friend, quick-tempered Charles.

I hounded

him for not being able to sell his work and having his second wife leave him.

It costs

me a black eye, but when I went to the interview for the Hutchins assignment, my heavy
makeup got the recruiter asking me questions that had nothing to do with graphics. She
cried when I told her my version of the truth and that’s probably why I got the
assignment.
I have a rent controlled apartment in Park Slope because I moved a knife down
my arm.

I getting Steve because I give a lot of money to Larry and Hutchins …I got

them all because I let something bad happen to me.
way but it works and it‘s not my fault!
I need yin and yang.
go on.

I don’t know why it has to be this

Ma’at makes the world like this and I need her.

If there’s no way to bring on the good and survive the bad, I can’t

I’ll go crazy.

I may get so unhinged I'll go up a tall building with a gun ready

to shoot while screaming

I need order.

“It’s you going off,” the man hisses as he slides a cheap drink toward me.
not my favorite bar.

It’s

It’s the one I use when I need to find someone to drive me crazy. I

stop staring at my watery drink and look closely at him.

His bald head, face and arms

are covered with so many tattoos, they seem to come alive as his fat wiggles and jiggles.
He smells. He’s repulsive and he’ll do… what to me? I don’t know but I got to keep

the good luck coming.
I put my cell number on my answering machine so anyone who wants can get in
touch.

As I feel his greasy fingers paw my neck, I answer my phone while wondering

what duty calls.


