I was twelve when I first heard the screaming. Well, I suppose it was more like an
amplified gurgle more than anything. An attempt at screaming through crushed, wet vocal
chords. That chill inducing, squelching sound came just below my bedroom window. Judging
by the volume, I guessed whatever was producing such a racket was only a few feet away.
That night was cold; the one when I first heard the screams. I was shoved in-between white
sheets and white comforters with all of my fluffy white pillows piled on top of my head. I
remember my heart beating out of control. My body tensed with a strange kind of irrational
fear. Well, of course I was scared. Usually, the only sound where I lived was that of the
blistering wind. Not this time.
Settle down, Faeley. Do what he told you if you got worked up.
I heeded my own pep talk and tried the breathing exercises I was taught.
A sip of air in through the mouth.
An expulsion out through the nose.
After a couple goes with no success, I reverted to my infantile reaction. I shoved a fist
in my mouth to block my own shrieks. Nothing worked, and the gurgle screams only
increased in what might have been urgency. My imagination began to infiltrate common
sense. This all too human noise could be anything. An unnaturally mutated wolf with green
fangs and speckled purple pelt. A dragon filled with musty black smoke straight from the
netherworld. A troll hoping that curiosity would lure me from my bed and then he’d peel off
my skin layer by layer.
The list ran long. It kept running because in the back of my head I recognized the
scream, and that particular truth was something that was far worse than imagination.
Finally, I could no longer endure being faced with some howling creature and only
myself to depend on for safety. I hopped out of the warm plethora of blankets on my bed and
felt the instant cold sting of tiled floor on my bare feet. I used light from the moon that
flickered between my blinds as a pathway to my room’s white door. Quietly, I turned the
smooth white gold knob and creaked the door open.
Now, I hear when most people open a door on the third floor they expect at least
something like carpet, wooden panels, or some stairs immediately thereafter. That scene was
not what I was accustomed to.
When I looked down I saw nothingness. If I stepped out as the situation currently
presented itself, I would have tumbled straight below to the first floor, becoming a lovely
splatter mark to whoever might have been my father’s next guest. Because I knew better, I
instead carefully bent down to activate a tiny white button located at the corner of the
doorframe.
A slight glimmer shuddered into existence in the voided darkness. Stairs formed one
after another directly down to floor one. They pulsed as if they were newly born glistening
veins. I patiently waited until this process ended. Melia, my sweet old nanny from when I
was much younger, had caught me just before I stepped right through one of these steps
when I was four.
“Miss Auttenburg, please do wait you careless child. Do you want to die? Do you
want me to?”Melia asked in her familiar nasal squeak. I had a feeling she was not talking
about death by stairs. The old woman nervously fingered an uncovered spot on the back of
her neck as she spoke. A spot that everyone had. The nanny nonetheless smiled, quickly
fixed her gray hair, and told me how to recognize the golden opportunity was to use the
stairs.
I knew what I was doing now thanks to Melia. Even if the stairs had the barest of
pulses or if I could still see through them, putting my weight on only one would mean
another untimely death ended at the front door. This mechanism was just a fancy toy my
father contracted his favorite inventor to create, and so I never thought too much about why
I truly needed an invisible staircase.
On I went, used to the notion of my room connected to one wall with nothing to lead
up to it. I reached the bottom, and as a habit, I located the small button camouflaged as a
paisley mark at the base of the conjured staircase. The process of decomposing the stairs was
much faster than the birth of them. During the entirety of this progression, I could still hear
the noises. The screams were like a persistent gnat. They pursued me as I pattered along the
ornate hallways of my father’s mansion.
I wanted to find Father. He should’ve been aware as to what was producing that
noise. I knew he would not be in his bedroom or the office filled with his official papers and
stamps, despite strict Curfew rules. After a stress ridden day sleep would not be easy for him,
and the idea of more work this late would only repulse him. There was only one place I
guessed I would discover him.
I came upon a golden door with images of ancient lions and unicorns dancing along
swirled bronzed paneling. Father called the pictures, medieval. The illustrations were both
simplistic and yet highly fascinating. Almost as if the creatures were magically caught in a
type of glue to keep them on the door. The beasts momentarily amazed me, for I was too
used to the pure whiteness of my own habitation. Despite the fear still tumbling inside my
stomach I still felt the bitter taste of jealousy coat my tongue.
How come I couldn’t be free to have even a painting in my room? Where was the
harm in allowing some personalization to my confinement?
Before I could regain my composure, I heard a smoothed, almost polished voice
rumble from the space beyond the mythical animals.
“Come in, daughter.”
Even though it was my idea to see him, the command from Father made me want to
turn tail and embrace the wails from the window. I knew the consequences that came with
disobedience, and so I entered my father’s library.
Inside were too many items for me to account now. I remember glimpses of silver
painted shelves pregnant with so many books, papers, notes, and bobbles, my senses became
overwhelmed.
On my left were glass cases of books that were over three hundred years old and some
far older. Thick and worn, I always wanted to touch their spines to see if they could truly
come to life like their words inside of my head did. Unfortunately, these books were locked
away. The novels and tomes to my right were free for anyone to read. They were piled on
three mahogany desks in heaps of browns, burnt reds, and deep oranges. Even though these
were out in the open, no one dared to touch them while Father was in the library.
Right, Father. There was no going back now.
“You have activated the stairs, daughter.” The thunderstorm said from his grand
golden chair near the large, foreboding fireplace. The little figures carved into the

Blutbinden/
4

mantelpiece of the fireplace were half naked fawns, and they almost danced out of the fire as
I watched. I shuddered and straightened my white nightshift from habit.
“Come here, child, and explain to me why you have broken Curfew.” From the arm of
his chair, I could see that Father’s hand encircled a wine glass. I could almost smell the
pungent, fruity aroma from where I stood in petrification. My tongue turned into cotton. I
had made a grave mistake coming here, but I could not turn back and expect to stay
mentally in one piece now. Instead of retorting with asking him why he was also breaking
Curfew, I meekly replied.
“I apologize for my—”
“Quiet. Let me see you.”
I shuffled around the elaborate hand woven rug of sprites and castles. Scooted past
one of the tables that carried an outspread map of the city we hovered on. Blut Binden. All
the while Father became clearer. His cold, ivory skin so different from my tea colored brown.
The sharp snap of navy blue eyes. An ocean of shoulder length ebony hair tied back by a blue
ribbon. A scar across his full lips. No freckles, which made me ponder where I inherited mine.
He was still wearing the dark cerulean suit he adorned only for the most important of
meetings with the Bluts. I kept walking until my entire body blocked the now sinister
fireplace, and I could see Father fully.
“Good.” He set his wineglass on the end table next to him. “Now you may speak.”
“Sir, I apologize.” I completely forgot what I was hoping to say to alleviate any
foreseeable pain. Some lie about hurting my finger and wanting to bandage the fake wound
myself. Looking back now, a lie from my lips would have incurred a worse punishment. I had
a panel for all wounds installed on the wall next to my four poster bed. If I had been
Blutbinden/
5

wounded, all I needed to do was tell the panel what had been sliced or bludgeoned and an
array of tools would slide from the wall. Not to mention a few medical staff tramping up to
my room. I was lucky if it was my favorite maid, Marrow, who came.
Truth would have to be my best option.
“I heard screaming outside of my window. It scared me, so I tried to find you.”
“And what would you do, now that you found me, to convince me that you weren’t
dreaming this nonsense up?”
“I…I don’t know.”
Father sighed heavily, adopting the voice that meant he was pretending to care.
“Daughter, you know where we live, do you not?”
“Yes, I do know.”
Father continued his eerily calm voice.
“We live near seventy one meters up in the sky.”
“I, I know. Sir, I know!”
Suddenly, Father stood. He loomed over me like some six foot six mountain over my
mere twelve-year-old five feet. I wished the mythical animals would wake from their slumber
and defend me when his voice warped slightly. Just enough to let me understand that I
should never, under any circumstance, do this again.
“How then, if you are so informed, can you believe that there can be someone under
your window?”
“It can be a servant?” I ventured, grasping for anything to protect my intelligence,
not to mention myself.
“You know as well as I do that the Curfew does not only apply to yourself.”
Blutbinden/
6

I gulped and finally, finally told him my true reason for braving his ire.
“The screams sound like Tutor Three!”
The moment I uncovered my fear, Father relaxed. His shoulders, of which this whole
time he held up to both ears, fell. He sat back down in his warm cushioned arm chair almost
smiling. I found the whole scene unnerving.
“Ridiculous girl. You understand already that I sent him away to be some other
brat’s tutor.”
“But it sounds exactly like him. He’s in pain.” I knew my voice wobbled. It was hard
to admit that for all my imaginings, having Tutor Three be the monster was the most
frightening option of them all.
After Melia left the household when I was five, Tutor One came to teach me my
letters and mathematics. She lasted for only six months until her and Father had a terrible
fight. He said Tutor One stormed out of the mansion and onto the acres of land that
surrounded the building. Back then, I did not know about our flight methods and always had
nightmares about Tutor One jumping from the mansion’s land plot and falling, falling,
falling. I still have scraps of those nightmares.
Tutor Two did not fair any better seeing as he taught me until I was only seven, and I
was alright with that. I did my best to make his life terrible in return for him doing the same
to me. He always growled at me under his breath, and I’m sure it was nothing sweet.
But Tutor Three. He was special.
He had bronze skin, brick red hair, and golden eyes. I admit, he was nice to look at
and made my child’s heart patter when he carefully wrote notes down with long, slender
fingers. Tutor Three taught me national history, high manners, all of the five languages
Blutbinden/
7

(Blut, Hoch, Mitte, Boden, and Müll,) along with the rest of the basic learning associated
with a young half-Blut.
Tutor Three was my favorite because sometimes when he felt certain that no one was
listening in he would write secret things. About gardening. About forgotten and forbidden
tales with princes and adventures. About things that I was certain were what made Father
send Tutor Three away.
I wasn’t sure how Father found out. Tutor Three covered his tracks sufficiently
enough. He would eat the strips of paper he wrote secrets on after I read them, or I would
bury the pieces in my own secret place I kept in my closet. That way, Father or any of the
servants would not find out that some silences were actually filled with secret learning.
Yes. Yes I knew that those gurgles of agony belonged to Tutor Three like I knew my own
speaking voice. Yet Father laced his hands together and leered at me as if I were the butt of
some unpleasant joke.
“Forget Tutor Three, child.” Father said my tutor’s name like it were something
absurd. “Go back to your room, and get back to your bed. Do not step foot on Floor One
until I’ve prepared for you a Tutor Four. Won’t that make you happy?”
“But, sir, if Tutor Three is hurt, we should help him.”
“Are you disobeying me?” Father paused pleasantly enough, but then a tick in his
jaw and the subtle redness around his cheeks warned me. That horrid scar on his lips almost
pulsated, and my stomach churned. He asked again. "Are you disobeying me, child?”
“N-no, Father.”
Quick. It was too quick. One moment he sat like a tightly wound cat. Still. Waiting.
The next, he flew at me like a hawk diving for prey. He did not actually hit me. He was close,
Blutbinden/
8

with his large hand hovering over my cheek. There was no contact, but I still felt as if he
smashed his hand across my face without restraint. I knew I wouldn’t have a black eye or a
swollen brow the next day, but it sure felt like there was some damage. I never knew how he
was able to make me hurt with no physical damage. This ability must have been another toy
Father made his mad scientist invent. Crying wouldn't help, no matter how much I wanted
to, so I stayed still and silent like I was taught.
“Good. Good,” Father mumbled. He bent down to circle his arms around me. I
tensed, smelling the hint of his cologne; something far too sweet for his personality, like
peppermint. The sleeve of his suit brushed my face and it was a struggle to keep my mouth
shut. The aftereffects of his faux slap still clung to me.
My father sat back, and I am sure he was satisfied he reached his quota of interacting
with me for the month. “Leave my sight.”
I did not have to be told again. Back I fled. Through the night touched hallways
decorated with ancient panels. Past the empty and elegant dining room where every night at
six I would be paraded around the highest officials like I was the thing they were going to eat
for dinner. To the parlor room tastefully painted with creamy hues of pinks and blues. I
managed to ignore the golden bowl of fake jeweled apples, an item of decoration that
beckoned me to throw out of my window.
There was the hidden button on the corner of a floor tile exactly fifteen steps
southeast from the hall I just came from. I pressed it. The wait was brief as the stairs crawled
to my own floating room. I almost bolted up, slipping a few times while I cradled my intact
cheek. When I reached my door and flung myself in I did not have to turn to find that I was
again trapped in my delicate white cage.
Blutbinden/
9

The yells of Tutor Three, or whoever the terrible noise belonged to, continued. I heard
the blood chilling screams from nine at night until they melted into the hours of six in the
morning. Exactly when Curfew began and ended. I stayed awake for the full nine hours,
biting my nails until they bled. Pulling out single strands of my long, messy black hair one
by one. Doing nearly anything I could do to silence the constant caterwauling. By the time a
month of this agony rolled by, my nails were chewed to the beds, my hair had thinned
drastically, and there were heavy circles around my pale hazel eyes.
Half of the time, I wondered if I was the one conjuring the stagnated pitch inside of
my head. It could have been possible as I was only allowed out of my room for Dinner at six
for that whole month with no interaction from others. But who would truly want to talk to
the Dinner guests? It was like talking to a wall. (Unfortunately, I had practice with that.) Of
course, those screams were very much real. Only something part of reality could create whole
fields of gooseflesh on my chalky arms and drive a painful twist to the bottom of my heart.
Around the end of the month of torture holed up in the ivory prison my father
constructed for me, the screams began to lighten. Started to sound like half-hearted moans.
Became almost like mush. Then, they ended all together. I thought I could sleep again. The
end of the screams should have signaled the beginning of my peace of mind. I should have
been overjoyed.
I could still hear him.
I could hear him at night. Tutor Three, beaming at me as if only I could make him
proud. Sitting on my floor with pages of books torn out for only me to scan. (Bits from
Tristan and Isolde, Grimm’s Fairy Tales, stories from lives so, so far away both in time and

Blutbinden/
10

from my reach.) I could hear his pleasant, knowledgeable voice melting into the bare bones of
the last month’s terror.
I screamed, too. Howling until I believed my throat might have been slashed with
millions of glass shards. No one came to see if I was alright. Perhaps no one was allowed to or
else Marrow surely would have smoothed my unraveled mutterings. I was sure that I had
gone insane.
On one particular night a few months after speaking with my father I found that I
could not close my eyes due to the ache simply shutting them caused. Again, Tutor Three
was reduced to the squeal of a dead thing to begin his nightly cruelty. Panicked, I knocked
items from my white nightstand to find anything, just anything, to occupy myself from my
internal mental abuse. I found old papers, required workbooks, small knick knacks,
nothing—nothing! Desperate, I shoved the stand over, scattering all of its contents. I almost
gave up until I found a glint of something after I scanned the shiny floor tiles covered with
trash.
“What are you?” My voice, usually soft and obedient, cracked. I had not spoken since
that last conversation with Father. Not even to his guests or the servants. I would merely
nod when I was introduced and that was usually enough for those stuffy adults. My father
answered any questions pertaining to how I faired. I didn't care if what he said was always
far from the truth. Lies.
I reached out and swiped the thing. Between my pointer finger and thumb was a
device about the size of a rectangular, miniscule pill. I knew what the item was as soon as the
uncovered starlight from my window hit it. About three months prior, I had left the item
buried under the papers myself.
Blutbinden/
11

“Insert that disk into the port underneath the back of your skull.” That was what
Father said to do. Since he managed and was trusted with most of the Blut’s technological
services, he was privy to a great deal of the in-process and test stage inventions.
He said that this disc would connect to the manmade port everyone had on the back
of their neck installed since birth. This port was directly linked to a chip that was imbedded
on the spinal chord, recording our locations at all times, what we were saying and seeing, and
I always fancied that it even took down what we ate. Basic information like that.
My chip was different, though. Since I was the daughter of a Blut and a Hoch, the
chip was not used to record movements like they did for the Bodens and Mülls. Essentially,
my chip was completely blank. My installed technology and the subsequent port was
specialized to incorporate devices like the ones Father funded inventors to create.
I knew Bluts, Hochs, and if they were lucky, Mittes, would use the ports to
communicate with others over long distances, to be plugged into some type of complicated
database that spread over the world, or to play special emersion games. Such a large and
intricate universe that anyone could access seemed like a myth to me. To think that others
could use their ports freely and talk to friends and family so easily was baffling.
Father never let me have any opportunity to link with the outside, and disabled my
chip from those specific functions. Thinking about it now, if he had given me the materials to
reach out to others, what point would there be sticking me in a floating room that rested in a
mansion two hundred feet up in the sky? So when he came to my room with this gift of a
disc, I was naturally wary of the item.
“What does it do?” I asked.

Blutbinden/
12

“It lets you live in your imagination.” The sun was out that day, and the way the beams
came in clashed with the white of my walls. Somehow, all of that light created a deep shadow
upon my father’s face with only his profound blue eyes shining behind the mask of
undertones.
“The developer called the disk Phantine or Imachine. Something along those lines.
What an unoriginal name either way.”
“Live in my imagination…”
“Yes. Plug this into your port and what you conjure into your head will seem
perfectly real to you.”
“So I could make a dragon appear on my bed?”
“Not exactly. You cannot project your imagination into reality." He licked his lips as
if they had suddenly become dry. Or maybe he thought he was wasting his time explaining
something so simple to a kid like me. "You are inserted into your own mind. You withdraw."
“What do you mean?”
I might have heard the strain it took from Father not to become aggravated as he
answered my question.
“The whole world as you see it now is just data. Data that your brain collects to be
siphoned through and quickly interpreted. What you see outside of yourself, then, is what
you’ve deciphered from the collected data.” Father took a second to massage the crease
rapidly building in-between his eyes. His hair was out of the usual low ponytail, and so a few
strands clung to his neck.

Blutbinden/
13

“My scientist discovered a way to take the data inside of your own head, your
imagination, and set said potential before you as if you were actually perceiving, let’s say,
that dragon on your bed. But only internally. It’s truly a massive discovery.”
Something was wrong with his expression when he said, “You should be honored to
test his invention. If this works, there will be no more boundaries. No more limitations. I
need you to think hard, and I suggest laying down. Also, set an alarm. An imagination can
get addicting.”
Father placed the disc on my palm, and a zap of something branched into my skin. Whatever
I felt was completely uncomfortable, and I knew right then and there that I would not be
using Phantine. Yet something else was warning me not to use this.
“Why are you giving this to me?”
Father sighed as if I was asking him to again explain why we must float above the
Bodens and Mülls, or if we must hide ourselves, why I could not see the townsfolk of Blut
Binden. I’d ask him those very questions as a child one too many times, and now his answer
was something I could not take lightly again.
“The developer wanted me to test the disc for kinks, I suppose. To point out the
wrinkles in his blasted device. I have no time for such nonsense, but I should not waste the
man’s talents. Not after what he did to fix the chip’s functions for our watchdogs. Oh yes,
that benefited us all in the end.” His grin became primal. “Daughter, use Imachine whenever
you have time.” I’m sure he meant that as an obvious jab. I had all the time in the world.
But I could see the odd and calculating countenance seething behind his eyes. I stopped
myself from asking anymore, determined to question Tutor Three once he came for our
lesson. Knowing that Father was withholding important information. Father kept talking.
Blutbinden/
14

“You’ll need this soon enough, girl.” Then he turned and left me to shove the
wretched Phantine under a nest of books and papers.
I remembered my resolve to absolutely not use the disc. If my father wanted me to
plug the thing into my port, then that was the biggest reason to refuse even entertaining the
idea of using the thing. But the screams, the howls, the guttural groans. I couldn’t continue
being alone for so long with nothing but my insanity for company. It would seem that Father
backed me into a corner.
I gulped, my mouth completely dry, and positioned the disc between my fingers. The
tears in my eyes stung. I did not want to do this. I knew that if I plugged myself into
whatever my father gave me I would be playing right into his trap. I was weak, then. Too
weak to fight a man as strong willed as my father.
The disc slipped in tightly. A slight snap clicked into my spine and I waited. Nothing
happened. Nothing at all. My room stayed exactly how I saw it all my life. The bed, my
overturned stand, the bare walls, my open closet, everything. I almost laughed from my
desperate actions. All this turmoil just for a dysfunctional Phantine? Reaching back to
unplug the disc from its port I quickly imagined the paintings from my father’s library door
shaking their heads in sympathy. I saw the unicorn’s coarse fur. Its smoothed horn twisting
like an ivory and gold candy into a deadly point. The dangerous lion moved and a glimmer of
the feline’s mane was almost real. Too real.
My feet were walking, taking me closer to the fictional animals. My bed, closet, and
window disappeared. Around my peripherals trees began to materialize. They were at first
only long, brown sticks. Ribbons of bark wrapped around the sticks over and over like one
would watch the anatomy of a human being’s internal system, one artery and capillary after
Blutbinden/
15

another. First the bones, then the muscles, then the veins, and then the skin. I have only
seen maples, evergreens, oaks, hickories, and weeping willows on the plot the mansion rested
on, and so these were the trees that were forming. I reached out to touch a particular oak,
and it was like feeling the rough texture of an oak tree in the small garden below my room.
The bark mimicked that very oak’s covering down to the “F” scar I carved into the tree
years ago.
I continued walking. Grass sprung from the ground in all colors of green, and I
wondered if grass could be shades of dark blue in the city under the mansion. Immediately,
patches of grass darkened into a vivid blue almost as dark as my father’s eyes.
My room was no longer the pristine white I lived in for twelve years. In fact, it wasn’t
even my room. There was a sky painted light pinks and purples and dotted with faint,
glowing stars. They were cheerful and I hurt with the want to be like them. There was a cliff
supporting tons of glittering water cascading down into cool, streaming water that flowed
down to my suddenly booted feet. I was wearing poofy pants and a peasant shirt like the
outfits I always imagined would be on a medieval adventurer. I could smell the mist dangling
in the air and feel my new apparel cling warmly to my body.
The longer I watched this fantasy world grow, the wider my smile became. I charged
down a hill filled with wild flowers mostly comprised of the blooms I grew in my secret
garden. I added outrageous colors of oranges, yellows, greens, or whatever I could think of
that was not white. They turned to me, shouting my name excitedly.
“Aaah, I’m free!” I breathed in rapture. “I’m alive!” I laughed with the burning joy
running through my body. I reached the mythical animals and they nuzzled me. I did not
know what a lion or unicorn would feel like, so I gave them the consistency of my hair, but
Blutbinden/
16

shorter and softer. They had the scent of Tutor Three, of warmed honey and the outside of
the mansion. “I won’t go back, I won’t,” I said into the mane of the lion. It wrapped its
massive paws around me and purred.
“Then you do not have to.”
My head shot up, and I backed away. I was shaking from adrenaline and shock. The
lion was gone and in its place was Tutor Three whole and alive. Not a wailing monster but his
usual glowing self. He spread his arms open, and how could I not run into them?

[End Recording One]

Blutbinden/
17


