I read an article. If I am not wrong, the title was „Ascheen‟s pen‟. Some archeological
findings, tablets from an ancient tribe whose name I forgot, from a place that I can not
remember, was the theme of the article. The author was someone who tried to give an original
explanation of the findings at the risk of being contradictory of his colleagues and of being
accused of writing on subjects beyond his profession by people from various disciplines.
I am not sure if the author was a genuine archeologist or a charlatan, besides, my efforts to
search further about mentioned ancient tribe and findings yielded no result, nor did I find
anyone who heard about the story. Whether I turned my house upside down, I could not find
the magazine in which the article was written. (A magazine I could not remember the name,
probably forgotten by some guests passed by –Magazines are not my cup of tea) Thank god, I
have my notes, paraphrased from the gripping parts of the article at my fingertips.
In very simple terms, the article was about the evalution of man‟s conception of time and the
reason for it. The author claimed that conception of time of primordial man was not
unidimensional like ours but it was much more complex, where future past and present were
not separated. So the primordial man was neither able to plan the future nor to remember the
past, since he was not located himself somewhere between before and after.
According to the author, this change was a result of an “evalutional error”. He assumed that at
some moment in the history, the deformation which seemed scarily triggered by the
primordial man itself, caused a unique rupture in the history of humanity.
In the centre of the article, were the diaries of Ascheen, a little girl from the mentioned tribe,
who apparently invented writing long before the Sumerians. As concrete signs of the rupture,
the diares were found significantly important by the author. He believed that Ashceen was the
missing link who gives great clues about the reason of the change in our mind. Surely, this
little girl, hardly can be our ancestor alone, was just the creator of the sole evidence of a
collective madness.
Above, I will quote the paragraphes of which I took note, but first, I must mention as far as I
can recall, about author‟s contradiction with his collegues (his way of calling them) regarding
the analyse of the tablets.
Opposing the assumption which deciphered the text as a nursery rhyme written by a girl
named Ascheen, the author asserted that it was a diary instead and insisted that it was one that
must be read in a context that can never be understood. He did merely sense this context and
figured out by his senses that the diary was written in a time „beyond-time.‟ In that point, he
replied to those who accused him of „doing mistification‟ or „saying nothing‟, as showing the
last parts of the diary: The part was very much explained by the rational mind –and if his
decipherment was right, it really was.
Ascheen‟s beyond-time-diary, was about her experiences resting in her mother‟s uterus,
having dinner on a rich table, playing with her friends, lying in the arms of her first man,
embracing her grandson... etc; she described them as “beautiful moments”. (The person who
experienced all these, Ascheen, were came up as a little girl in the end of the diary, probably
just before her death) Here, with your permission, I would like to cite the author since he
sounds more clear in the understanding of the mater.
“Ascheen in mommies arms, Ascheen watches the stars, Ascheen in the arms of her love,
Ascheen regales herself and while all of these are happening at the very same time, suddenly,
no, slowly, bit by bit, she somehow assume that she exists in only one single moment;
because Ascheen writes that she is.”
The author mentioned of findings before Ascheen as „closed books‟. It was by Ascheen, the
act of writing got the meaning of our day. Ascheen was an „open book‟. She bridged separate
and simultaneously existing times and in the end, she paid for it, by losing all of the moments
but the one she was experiencing. However, it was clear that what convienced, agreed –even
surrender, in author‟s word- her that she exists at only one moment, was a choice of her
freewill. “Instead of being herself and what she would be, she, herself, chose, at least only for
the moment she was writing, to be at only one moment. However, she was not aware that her
choice would bring the illusion of “present” that we are experiencing today.”
Ascheen and our ancestors who had the same experiences with her were running to the
darkness with their feet burning, soon, we were going to call that darkness as “the future” and
when they totally forgot their existence, we were going to call their non-existence as “being
right here, right now”.
The more Asheen writes, the more moments of writing was going to touch other moments.
According to the author, this was meant to be a call from one moment to other moments for
the first time.
Voices were fading for Acheen, soon it was gone forever. Inter-moments narrator has leaked
like a snake –I am telling you nice stories- as if it was pointing a third person, in real, it was
destroying the conception of time of the writer. That was the reason why, Ascheen‟s
simultaneous existence was narrowed in time and withdrawn in the end:
“As pages progress, we observe that Ashceen assumes that she exists only at one moment and
is no longer able to write about her other existences. She complains about her disability of

„skip to the moment‟ whenever she writes something. –Imagine the moment you wake up in
the middle of your sleep, full of a moment invading your mind and you are not able to catch
it- That was the first trick of her knockdowned mind. The agony of Acheen shows in the last
pages of her diary, my dear readers, were the results of something that we are very familiar
with: „To forget‟
The author‟s advice to readers was to imagine any kind of a temporary madness. One could
pee on him/herself in public, thinking he/she is at the toilet while not in his/her right mind.
Similarly, Ascheen forgot where she was while she was writing about a moment she had -and
she was having- on her diary. These oblivions were going to progress by pages and liken
Acheen‟s mind to ours in the end. The only paragraph from Acheen‟s diary –which was also
the last tablet according to the author‟s rang regarding the findings- quoted by the author was
as:
“I am writing. What do I write? I am a girl. My name is Ascheen. My age is 8. My hair is
brown. I am writing. I write this.”
According to the author, writer of these lines was “living only one moment, the one that we
insist to live, eventhough we know that soon or will it is going to prison us to our last moment
before death.” She was not aware of her infinity; she forgot of the rest of her existence. She
knew only her sex, her name, her age and her hair colour at that very moment and forgot the
past and future. Her manuscript shows that her body was affected by the deformation of her
mind, obviously she was in pain.
Our unclucky ancestor, was the first prototype of insanity.


