Miss  Beverly  wasn’t  inclined  towards  Johnny  Dynamite.  For  one,  his  name  was  
ridiculous.  It  wasn’t  his  real  name.  It  was  a  nickname.  But  no  one  called  him  Johnny  
or  Dynamite  either,  just  Johnny  Dynamite.  This  was  besides  his  parents  who  called  
him  John,  and  when  his  mother  was  upset  with  him,  Jonathon  Willis  Dupree.      
  
Miss  Beverly’s  distaste  wasn’t  because  she  knew  anything  about  Johnny  
Dynamite,  besides  how  he  looked  standing  in  front  of  her,  wearing  a  cut  off  plain  
white  t-­‐shirt,  cut  off  jean  shorts,  and  a  pair  of  worn  out  gray  New  Balance  running  
shoes.  But  she  could  tell  there  was  trouble  on  her  front  porch.  She  felt  she  had  a  
knack  for  guessing  character.    
The  reason  Johnny  Dynamite  was  standing  on  her  front  porch  resided  in  the  
fact  that  this  sixteen-­‐year-­‐old  boy  was  the  object  of  her  only  child’s  affection.  Her  
daughter  had  made  plans  with  him  to  hike  some  trail.  Miss  Beverly  was  pleased  
when  Darla  asked  permission  to  do  this.  She  wasn’t  pleased  anymore.  Believing  that  
she  understood  her  daughter  quite  well,  since  she  saw  a  lot  of  herself  in  the  
fourteen-­‐year-­‐old,  she  knew  that  Darla’s  disposition  was  partial  towards  the  good  
for  nothing  bad  boy.  Miss  Beverly  knew  this  because  she  herself  was  drawn  to  the  
type.  Her  former  husband  had  been  the  type.  He  was  dead  now,  hit  by  a  UPS  driver.  
She  had  not  benefitted  in  any  way  from  the  delivery  corporation’s  mishap.  A  lawsuit  
was  deemed  fruitless.  Miss  Beverly’s  late  husband  had  been  plastered  drunk  at  the  
time.      
  
  
She  asked  Johnny  Dynamite  in  her  long  drawl  like  way  of  saying  things,  “You  
like  school?”  
  
  
He  replied,  unable  to  look  her  in  the  eyes  (she  took  this  as  a  bad  sign,  that  he  
was  lying),  “Yes  ma’am.”    
  
  
She  tried  to  be  tricky,  “What’s  your  favorite  subject?”  
  
  
He  still  didn’t  look  at  her,  but  turned  his  eyes  towards  the  street  to  watch  a  
power  walking,  arms  swinging  in  unison,  middle-­‐aged  couple.  They  were  wearing  
matching  fluorescent  green  jogging  outfits,  and  Johnny  Dynamite  thought  they  
looked  funny,  since  they  did.    
  
  
“I  like  computers…and  history,  I  guess.”  
  
  
Miss  Beverly’s  tone  was  a  bit  harsh,  “You  guess?”  
  
  
“No  ma’am.  I  do  like  computers,  a  lot…um…and  history.”    

“I  don’t  know  much  about  computers,  but  I  like  history  too.  It’s  good,  learning  
where  you  come  from.  But  what  I  hear  on  the  TV  though…they’re  teaching  kids  now  
what  didn’t  really  happen.  Can  you  believe  that?”  
  
  
Johnny  Dynamite  didn’t  reply.  He  didn’t  know  how  to.    
  
The  next  few  minutes  consisted  of  an  awkwardness  that  Miss  Beverly  rarely  
experienced,  due  to  her  character  trait/ability  in  being  able  to  talk  about  everything,  
even  if  she  didn’t  know  anything  about  the  topic  of  discussion.    
  
  
She  couldn’t  take  it  anymore,  “You  play  sports?”    
  
  
Johnny  Dynamite’s  gaze  caught  hers  just  briefly  enough  for  it  to  be  noticed,  
before  drifting  to  the  chipped  blue  paint  porch  floor,  “Nope.”    
  
  
“Well…what  do  you  do?”  
  
  
He  answered  quickly,  “I  like  movies.”  
  
  
“Huh?  Everybody  likes  movies.”  
  
  
“My  dad  don’t.”    
  
  
“Well…that  doesn’t  matter.  What  kind  of  movies  do  you  like?”  
  
  
“I  don’t  think  you’ve  seen  ‘em.”  
  
  
Miss  Beverly  took  offense  to  this  statement.    
  
“Try  me,”  she  curtly  demanded.  
  
  
His  eyes  moved  to  the  chipped  white  paint  porch  ceiling,  “How  ‘bout  The  
Dawn  of  The  Never?”  
  
  
She  had  no  knowledge  of  the  movie,  and  her  lack  of  a  response  prompted  
Johnny  Dynamite  to  say  another  along  with  a  few  more.    
  
  
“Time  and  Time  and  Eternity  ,  or  A  Wood  and  A  Fire  Man.  There’s  Life  as  an  
Oyster.  Um…Money  Over  and  Under  Mind?”    
  
  
She  interjected  before  he  could  continue,  “I  think  I  heard  of  the  second  one.”  
  
  
But  Miss  Beverly  hadn’t  heard  of  the  second  one,  and  Johnny  Dynamite  knew  
it.  A  person  suddenly  poked  out  their  head  and  yelled  from  the  back  of  the  Toyota  
Camry  that  was  Johnny  Dynamite’s  transportation  for  the  afternoon.    

“What’s  takin’  y’all  so  long?”    
  
  
She  was  rather  shocked  when  she  recognized  the  boy.  It  was  Bradley  
McDermott,  the  son  of  the  mother  who  was  the  president  of  her  daughter’s  high  
school’s  PTA.    
  
  
Miss  Beverly  waved,  “Why  Bradley  McDermott?  Is  that  you?”  
  
  
She  knew  it  was  him  and  continued  to  wave  her  hand,  “I  know  your  mother.  
Tell  her  Janice  says  hello.”          
  
  
It  was  obvious  that  the  seventeen-­‐year-­‐old  boy  didn’t  know  who  she  was.  
Still,  there  was  a  smile  on  her  face  now.  She  wondered  to  herself,  her  hand  having  
only  just  then  returned  to  the  back  of  her  neck,  wiping  the  growing  sweat  from  it,  
why  her  daughter  couldn’t  fancy  someone  like  Bradley  McDermott.    
Really  though,  she  didn’t  know  that  much  about  the  boy.  For  instance,  she  
was  entirely  unaware  that  Johnny  Dynamite  was  Bradley’s  first  cousin,  since  their  
mothers  were  sisters.  What  she  did  know  was  that  Bradley’s  father  was  the  lead  
manager  at  the  local  factory,  which  specialized  in  non-­‐stick  plastic  glue  containers.  
She  also  knew  that  aside  from  being  in  charge  of  the  PTA,  Bradley’s  mother  handled  
her  wine  well.  At  least  Miss  Beverly  had  heard  this  from  one  of  her  coworkers  who  
played  doubles  tennis  with  Mrs.  McDermott  every  Tuesday.  It  was  true  that  
Bradley’s  mother  didn’t  have  a  job,  but  Miss  Beverly  didn’t  hold  this  against  her,  like  
her  aforementioned  coworker  did.  She  wouldn’t  have  worked  either  if  the  option  
were  available.    
The  screen  door  opened  and  out  stepped  Darla.  It  just  so  happened  that,  
besides  the  shoes,  her  clothes  matched  Johnny  Dynamite’s  perfectly.  She  was  
wearing  a  white  spaghetti  strap  shirt  and  short,  blue  jean  shorts.  Her  shoes  were  
perfectly  clean,  bright  yellow  Nike’s.  Originally,  Darla  hadn’t  been  wearing  the  outfit,  
but  when  she  saw  Johnny  Dynamite  walk  up,  she  changed  in  order  to  perhaps  
convince  him  that  they  were  soul  mates,  or  at  least  give  the  two  of  them  something  
to  talk  about.      
The  moment  he  saw  Darla,  there  was  a  subtle  grin  on  Johnny  Dynamite’s  face.  
Miss  Beverly  noticed  this,  and  that  he  was  able  to  look  into  her  daughter’s  eyes.  She  
stared  at  the  two  of  them  and  tried  to  come  up  with  some  excuse  to  keep  her  
daughter  home.  Nothing  presented  itself.  
As  they  drove  off,  Miss  Beverly  thought  out  loud  that  it  was  always  best  to  
learn  from  one’s  mistakes  anyways.  That’s  how  she  had  lived.  She  felt  she  had  
turned  out  all  right.    
  
Part  Two    
  
“Yo…cuz…you  got  somethin’  to  drink?”  
  
  
JD  didn’t  take  his  eyes  off  the  road,  but  reached  down  towards  the  floor  of  the  
passenger  side  of  the  car  (his  hand  accidentally  brushed  against  Darla’s  bare  leg,  

  

4  

giving  them  both  a  momentary  feeling  frenzy)  and  picked  up  a  plastic  bottle  of  
yellow  Gatorade.  Without  looking  towards  the  backseat,  he  held  up  the  radioactive  
looking  liquid  towards  Bradley.    
  
“Nah  man,  I  don’t  want  no  Gatorade.  Y’all  got  anythin’  hard  to  drink?”  
  
Without  emotion,  JD  answered,  “No.”  
  
  
Bradley  crossed  his  arms  and  whined,  “Why  the  hell  am  I  hangin’  with  kids?”  
  
  
The  reason  the  cousins  were  hanging  out  was  because  both  of  their  mothers  
had  forced  them  to  do  so.  Bradley’s  mother  thought  Bradley  had  been  spending  too  
much  time  with  the  wrong  crowd,  which  he  had  been.  JD’s  mother  thought  he  hadn’t  
been  spending  enough  time  with  anyone  besides  Darla,  which  was  the  case  entirely.  
Neither  of  them  liked  the  other.  This  aversion  had  started  when  JD  was  five,  Bradley  
six,  during  Christmas.  Bradley  had  purposefully  stepped  on  a  Star  Wars  Lego  model  
of  the  Millennium  Falcon.  JD  had  spent  four  hours  putting  together  the  puzzled  
block  pieces  after  pulling  it  out  from  under  the  tinsel  covered  tree.  A  moment  later  
JD’s  retaliation  came  in  the  form  of  a  t-­‐ball  aluminum  bat,  which  Bradley  had  
unwrapped  hours  earlier.  The  five-­‐year-­‐old  Jonathon  Willis  Dupree  swung  with  all  
his  might,  right  into  the  stomach  of  Bradley  McDermott,  and  caused  him  to  vomit  
cranberry  sauce  everywhere.  They  had  hated  each  other  ever  since.    
JD  glanced  towards  Darla.  If  she  had  known  he  was  looking  at  her,  she  would  
have  stared  back  in  that  innocent  “I  love  you  more  than  breathing”  kind  of  way.  But  
her  eyes  were  looking  out  the  passenger  window  at  the  brown,  dead  fields,  as  they  
rolled  by.      
Darla  and  JD  were  at  that  awkward  stage  of  youth,  and  hence  their  
relationship  was  just  as  awkward.  Three  weeks  previously  they  had  kissed  for  the  
first  time.  JD  had  just  gone  for  it  out  of  nowhere,  in  the  library  of  all  places,  while  she  
was  reading  The  Bell  Jar  for  a  school  assignment.  They  kissed  again  later  that  night.  
The  second  lasted  a  much,  much  longer  time.  It  was  the  first  time  JD  had  kissed  a  
girl,  as  in  tongue  action  and  not  just  some  peck  on  the  lips.  It  was  the  fourth  time  
Darla  had  been  kissed  this  way.          
  
  
“Last  night,  I  went  over  to  Joey’s.  Now  he  knows  how  to  party!  Dawn  stole  a  
eighteener  from  his  daddy,  probably  gonna  get  whipped  for  it.  I  got  drunk.  You  ever  
been  drunk  cuz?”    
  
  
JD  didn’t  answer.    
  
  
“Whatever  cuz…Joey  started  tossin’  full  cans  of  Mountain  Dew  in  the  fire.  We  
all  stood  ‘round  it  till  they  popped,  and  whoever  got  too  scared  to  stand  there  had  to  
take  off  some  of  their  clothes.  But  it  wasn’t  gay.  There  were  girls  there  too.  Becka  
was.  Shit,  she’s  got  the  biggest  tits  I’ve  ever  seen  in  my  life.”  
  
  
JD  turned  around,  “Shut  up  Bradley.”  

  

5  

  
“Oh,  sorry  cuz…didn’t  know  there  was  a  child  in  the  car  with  virginal  
ears…shit.”  
  
Yes,  JD  and  Darla  were  at  that  awkward  stage  where  neither  really  knew  how  
to  talk  to  the  other.  Even  now,  Darla  was  trying  her  hardest  to  think  of  something  to  
say.  JD  would’ve  been  too,  if  his  thoughts  hadn’t  been  distracted  by  the  intense  hate  
he  felt  for  his  cousin.    
When  the  young  and  in  love  couple  first  met,  during  gym  class,  JD,  being  
about  as  chivalrous  as  one  could  be  in  gym  class,  dove  in  front  of  Darla,  saving  her  
from  a  thrown  dodge  ball.  He  not  only  saved  her,  but  caught  the  ball.  He  didn’t  do  
this  to  win  her  affection,  but  in  order  to  win  the  game.  Regardless  of  his  intentions,  
she  fell  in  love  immediately.  That  night  she  found  him  on  Instagram.  She  took  a  
picture  of  a  note,  in  which  she  had  written  in  beautiful  cursive,  “Thank  you  for  
saving  my  life.”  The  note  was  taped  to  a  dodge  ball.  She  made  sure  that  he  would  see  
it,  and  when  he  did,  he  fell  in  love.  The  next  day,  he  walked  up  to  her  lunch  table  and,  
in  front  of  fifteen  girls,  asked  her  if  she  wanted  to  go  to  Sonic  with  him.  She  said  yes.  
Later  that  night,  after  a  conversation  about  the  word  slushy,  they  became  
inseparable,  going  on  for  two  whole  months  now.  
  
“I  heard  that  Coach  D.  likes  to  pretend  that  he  don’t  know  when  the  girls  are  
changin’,  and  so  gets  a  quick  peak  at  them  all  the  time.  Hell,  I  would  too  if  I  were  
him.  He’s  gotta  get  what  he  can  get,  like  my  daddy  says.  Coach  Kryer  always  yells  at  
him  at  football  practice.  He  calls  him  stupid  to  his  face  cause  he  is  stupid…always  
apologizin’,  runnin’  ‘round  like  a  chicken  with  no  head.  I’d  hate  to  be  stupid.  My  
daddy  says  that  he—“  
  
JD  interrupted,  “—Shut  up  Bradley.”  
  
Bradley  leaned  forward  in  the  backseat,  “We  got  a  problem  cuz?  If  you  want,  
you  can  stop  this  car.  I’ll  kick  your  ass  if  you  want?  You  want  me  to  kick  your  ass  in  
front  of  your  virginal  ears  girlfriend?”  
  
JD’s  voice  raised,  “What  happened  last  time  you  tried  to  kick  my  ass  
Bradley?”  
  
Bradley  didn’t  respond  and  leaned  back  again.    
  
JD’s  voice  became  emotionless  once  more,  “Now  if  you  want,  I  can  turn  
around  and  get  you  home…if  you  want?”  
  
“Shit  man…my  mom  says  I  won’t  get  no  allowance  if  I  don’t  hang  out  with  you  
today.  She  says  you  got  no  friends  and  need  some,  but  that  you’re  a  good  kid…I  think  
you’re  a  piece  of  shit.”  
  

  

6  

JD  tapped  the  brakes,  pulled  over  along  the  side  of  the  road  and  switched  off  
the  engine.  He  turned  around  in  his  seat  and  stared  at  Bradley  without  saying  a  
word.  Bradley  was  unable  to  keep  his  cousin’s  gaze  and  looked  out  the  window  into  
the  darkness  of  the  woods  that  now  surrounded  the  single  lane,  paved  road,  “Shit  
man…didn’t  mean  no  offense.”  
  
JD  started  the  car  back  up.  He  sent  a  smile  Darla’s  way.  It  was  supposed  to  
symbolize  that  he  was  sorry  she  had  to  deal  with  his  first  cousin.  She  didn’t  
understand  the  implicit  gesture.  Regardless,  she  smiled  back.      
When  JD’s  mother  found  out  he  had  a  girlfriend  she  had  been  ecstatic  to  say  
the  least.  But  when  she  realized  who  Darla  was,  more  specifically  that  she  was  the  
daughter  of  the  man  who  had  gotten  himself  hit  by  the  UPS  truck,  she  didn’t  
approve.  Likewise  she  had  met  her  mother,  who  she  felt  talked  too  much.  She  tried  
explaining  to  JD  that  it  was  good  thing  that  he  had  a  girlfriend,  but  that  most  people  
didn’t  have  the  family  life  like  he  did.  She  didn’t  want  him  to  get  his  hopes  up.  His  
father,  on  the  other  hand,  was  indifferent  of  the  matter.  So  when  JD’s  mother  
pleaded  with  him  to  talk  some  sense  into  his  only  child,  he  clicked  off  the  TV,  kissed  
her,  rolled  over  in  bed,  and  whispered  the  words  “I  love  you”.  He  fell  asleep  within  
the  next  two  minutes,  in  spite  of  his  wife  continuing  on,  voicing  out  loud  her  
complaints.  
They  parked  the  car  in  a  small  dirt  lot.  There  weren’t  any  other  cars.  Not  
many  knew  of  the  spot  anymore.  The  three  of  them  began  the  four  mile  up  hill  hike  
along  a  winding  ill  kept  trail  that  led  to  a  rock  quarry.  It  had  been  filled  with  water  
after  the  mining  company  ran  into  an  underground  river.  The  surrounding  forest  
was  made  up  of  pine  trees  and  little  else.  There  was  a  feeling  of  stillness  about  it.  
The  quiet,  only  breached  by  the  birds  and  Bradley,  who  occasionally  cussed  about  
the  mosquitos  and  how  his  flip  flop  wearing  feet  hurt.  Darla  and  JD  held  hands  for  all  
of  it.  The  pointless  chatter  of  their  third  party  member  was  inconsequential  to  the  
mood  that  resided  between  the  two  of  them.    
Tall  rocks  of  stone  surrounded  the  water  filled  quarry.  Trees  had  grown  up  
along  the  edges  of  the  rocks.  The  scenery  was  beautiful,  besides  the  stagnant,  glossy  
phlegm  looking  water.  There  was  no  outlet  for  it.  So  the  water  sat,  simmering  in  the  
sun,  growing  more  and  more  vile.    
There  once  had  been  a  false  rumor  that  a  car  was  in  it,  a  skeleton  still  in  the  
driver  seat.  The  story  went  that  the  person  had  upset  the  local  mob  members  back  
in  the  sixties.  Thirty  years  prior,  a  few  scuba  divers  had  searched  for  the  car.  The  
quarry  was  deep  enough  that  they  were  unable  to  reach  the  bottom.      
There  were  thorn  bushes,  wildflowers,  and  a  large  patch  of  mushrooms  along  
the  upper  ridge  of  the  quarry,  which  were  at  one  point  thought  to  be  of  the  
psychedelic  nature,  planted  by  hippies.  However,  this  had  been  forgotten,  just  like  
the  car.          
There  were  three  points,  along  its  sides,  which  were  used  to  jump  into  the  
disgusting  water.  There  were  only  three,  since  jumping  from  any  other  spot  meant  
your  legs  would  most  likely  clip  a  rock,  shattering  one  or  both  of  them.    The  first  
point  was  nothing  more  than  a  fifteen-­‐foot  drop.  There  was  nothing  dangerous  

  

7  

about  it,  nothing  exciting  about  it.  But  when  the  trail  ended,  this  fifteen-­‐foot  leap  of  
immediate  gratification  was  the  first  place  one  came  upon.    
The  second  point  was  reached  by  walking  uphill,  along  the  edge  of  the  quarry  
for  a  few  minutes.  After  hopping  over  a  small  crevice,  there  was  a  natural  ridge  
which  jutted  out,  therefore  allowing  the  jumper  to  avoid  the  rocks  protruding  from  
the  stone  walls.  It  was  a  forty-­‐foot  drop.    
The  third  point  was  a  bit  of  a  trek.  Instead  of  hopping  over  the  crevice,  one  
walked  past  it.  There  was  a  small  trail  after  this,  which  led  through  a  thick  group  of  
pine  trees.  A  twenty-­‐foot  wall  of  rock  then  presented  itself.  One  had  to  scale  it.  
However,  the  wall  had  been  chipped  at  over  the  years,  and  there  were  now  easy  to  
climb  steps  fashioned  into  it.  After  the  wall,  came  another  trail  that  led  to  the  edge  of  
the  highest  point  of  the  quarry.  If  one  jumped,  they  would  fall  exactly  sixty-­‐seven  
feet,  and  nine  more  inches,  into  the  water.  
When  the  three  of  them  reached  the  first  point,  JD  immediately  removed  his  
shirt  and  without  a  sound  dove  headfirst  into  the  water.  Bradley  followed  suit,  
taking  off  his  shirt,  but  he  didn’t  jump  into  the  water.  He  stood  there  watching  Darla,  
and  stated,  “I  gotta  get  my  tan  on.”    
JD  had  failed  to  mention  to  Darla  that  swimming  would  be  involved,  since  he  
hadn’t  planned  on  swimming.  He  hadn’t  planned  on  Bradley  being  present  either,  as  
his  mother  had  demanded  that  he  take  his  cousin  just  that  morning.  All  JD  wanted  
was  to  show  Darla  the  quarry.  He  had  come  to  the  spot  dozens  of  times.  His  father  
had  shown  it  to  him,  and  even  during  their  first  date  at  Sonic,  JD  had  expressed  that  
he  wanted  Darla  to  see  it.    
The  humidity,  mixing  with  the  ninety  four  degree  weather,  along  with  the  
physical  exertion  of  the  hike,  had  enticed  JD  with  the  anticipation  of  water  
enveloping  him.  But  the  situation  left  Darla  a  little  unnerved.  She  didn’t  want  to  take  
off  her  shirt  in  front  of  Bradley  and  understandably  so.  
  
Bradley  didn’t  help  at  all,  “Girl!  You  gonna  take  off  your  shirt?  You  should!  
Haha…don’t  worry,  I’ll  turn  ‘round.”    
  
Darla  looked  towards  JD.  He  sensed  her  dilemma,  and  swam  towards  the  
edge,  a  little  further  down  from  the  first  spot,  hoisting  himself  up  in  pull  up  fashion.  
He  walked  up  to  them,  dripping  water,  constantly  tugging  up  on  his  slipping  beltless  
pants.    
  
“Shut  up  Bradley.  Darla,  you  don’t  gotta  take  off  your  shirt.  I  didn’t  know  I  
was  gonna  swim.”        
  
Bradley’s  voice  gave  away  his  disappointment,  “Shit…I  didn’t  mean  nothin’  by  
it  cuz.”      
  
JD  didn’t  reply  to  this.  Instead,  he  laid  down  on  the  hot  rocks,  with  his  hands  
behind  his  head.  Darla,  relieved,  did  the  same,  and  situated  herself  next  to  him  so  
that  their  legs  were  barely  touching.  Bradley  was  disgruntled.    
  

  

8  

He  said  out  loud,  “A  god  damn  third  wheel.”  
  
There  was  silence.  Darla  and  JD  stared  up  into  the  cloudless  sky,  and  like  all  
teenage  lovers,  they  were  under  the  impression  that  something  pivotal  was  going  on  
inside  of  them.  Both  felt  angelic.  Each  of  them  could  hear  the  other  breathing,  and  as  
is  often  the  case  with  young  love,  neither  could  think  of  a  moment  when  they  were  
happier.  Their  hands  clasped,  and  Bradley,  seeing  the  action,  being  the  kind  of  
person  he  was,  came  up  with  an  idea.    
  
“Hey  cuz…ever  jumped  off  that  cliff?”  
  
“Yeah.”  
  
“You  bullshittin’  me.”  
  
JD  pushed  himself  up  and  onto  his  elbows,  which  forced  him  to  release  his  
hand  from  Darla’s.  He  looked  at  his  cousin,  “I’m  no  liar.”    
  
“I’m  just  sayin’…I  think  you  should  prove  it.”  
  
“Why?”  
  
“Don’t  wanna  look  like  a  pussy  in  front  of  your  girl  do  ya?”    
  
“Shut  up  Bradley.”    
  
“I’m  just  sayin’…how  ‘bout  this.  I  give  you  forty  bucks  to  jump  off  that  cliff.  I  
don’t  believe  you  got  the  balls  to  do  it.”  
  
“You  ain’t  got  no  forty  bucks  Bradley.”  
  
“I  sure  do.  Right  here  in  my  pocket.  How  ‘bout  this.  I’ll  give  it  to  your  girl,  and  
if  you  jump,  and  don’t  die,  she  can  give  it  to  ya.  And  if  you  don’t,  she’ll  hand  it  
back…and  you  don’t  gotta  give  me  nothin’.”  
  
The  allure  of  forty  dollars  was  too  much  for  JD  to  pass  up.  As  his  father  was  a  
maintenance  man  at  the  local  minor  league  baseball  stadium,  two  towns  over,  and  
since  his  mother  only  worked  three  days  a  week  at  the  library,  due  to  her  self  
diagnosis  in  not  being  able  to  handle  the  stress  of  a  full  time  occupation,  cash  was  
something  he  was  not  accustomed  to  having.  JD  had  a  job.  He  was  employed  by  a  
local  car  wash  called  Mr.  Duper’s  Super  Duper  Car  Wash.  But  given  the  economic  
climate  of  not  just  the  town,  but  the  whole  state,  Mr.  Duper  was  only  able  to  give  JD  
two  six  hour  shifts  a  week.  The  rest  of  Mr.  Duper’s  employees  were  around  the  age  
of  forty  and  most  of  them  had  families  to  feed.  Adding  to  this,  almost  all  of  JD’s  
paycheck  went  towards  either  his  car  insurance  or  cell  phone  bill.  Extra,  care  free,  
spending  money  was  a  commodity  he  rarely  experienced.    

  

9  

JD  looked  at  Darla.  The  cash  could  get  them  into  a  movie  and  pay  for  popcorn.  
They  could  smuggle  in  a  couple  of  sodas  and  have  enough  left  over  for  ice  cream  
afterward.  Darla  met  his  eyes.  There  was  worry  in  them.    
  
JD  asked  her,  “You  cool  with  that?”  
  
After  a  brief  hesitation,  she  replied,  “Sure.”  
  
He  stood  up  and  walked  over  to  Bradley,  “You  got  yourself  a  deal.”  
  
Bradley  pulled  out  from  his  khaki  short’s  pocket  a  wallet.  He  had  etched  into  
the  leather  “Get  Rich  Or  Die  Trying”  with  a  hunting  knife.  After  removing  his  bi-­‐
weekly  allowance  of  five  crisp  twenty  dollar  bills,  he  unfolded  them  slowly.  Just  as  
slowly,  he  flipped  them  over  and  over  in  his  fingers  in  order  to  make  sure  JD  was  
aware  of  how  many  green  pieces  of  paper  there  were.  He  held  two  out  for  JD,  and  
when  JD  reached  for  it,  he  pulled  it  back.    
  
“Whoa  there  cowboy…I’m  gonna  give  it  to  her.  I  don’t  want  you  runnin’  off  
with  my  hard  earned  cash.”  
  
Darla  was  still  lying  on  the  ground.  Bradley  walked  towards  her,  and  
hovering  over  her,  dropped  the  two  twenties  onto  her  stomach.  He  laughed.  
  
“Let’s  see  how  much  balls  you  got,  cuz!”    
  
JD  looked  at  the  money.  He  thought  for  a  moment  that  perhaps  it  was  a  bad  
idea  to  leave  Darla  alone  with  Bradley.  He  shook  off  the  sensation,  remembering  the  
preview  he  had  seen  a  week  back  for  the  remaking  of  Apocalypse  Now.  He  turned  
towards  the  cliff  and  began  to  walk.    
  
Part  Three  
  
It  didn’t  take  long  for  Bradley  to  break  the  silence  and  start  talking  to  Darla.    
  
“You  scared  girl?  You  think  he’s  gonna  die?  You  better  pray  he  don’t  die.”  
  
She  didn’t  respond  and  wouldn’t  look  at  him.  Her  eyes  were  focused  on  the  
cliff,  the  spot  from  which  JD  would  jump.    
  
“If  he  do,  then  you  stuck  with  me.”  
  
He  paused.  She  still  didn’t  respond.  He  continued,  “It’s  gonna  take  him  a  little  
bit  to  get  up  there.  You  wanna  swim?”  
  
She  shook  her  head  no.    
  

  

10  

“Don’t  matter.  I  don’t  really  wanna  swim  anyways.  I  just  was  tryin’  to  get  you  
to…ya  know  you  got  nothin’  to  be  ‘shamed  of.  You  look  good.  There’s  no  need  to  be  
shy  ‘bout  it.    I  don’t  know  why  you  messin’  with  my  cuz.  No  one  likes  him.  He’s  
weird.  Everybody  thinks  it.  Even  his  folks  think  it.”    
  
Darla  noticed  that  he  had  taken  a  step  towards  her.  She  stayed  in  place.  But  
when  he  took  another  step  forward,  she  stepped  back.  Bradley  took  note  of  the  
action.  
  
“He’s  gonna  be  up  there  for  a  while.  It’s  just  me  and  you  now.  Ya  know,  my  
daddy  taught  me  somethin’.”    
  
Bradley  paused  for  emphasis  and  then  continued,  “He  says  that  if  I  want  
somethin’,  I  gotta  grab  it,  gotta  take  it  by  force…if  I  really,  really  want  it,  I  mean.  And  
girl…right  now,  I  really,  really  want  you.  Know  what  I  mean?”  
  
Darla  took  another  step  back.    
  
“How  ‘bout  this…I  give  you  twenty  bucks,  and  you  take  your  shirt  off.  You  
don’t  even  gotta  take  your  bra  off,  just  your  shirt.  How  old  are  ya?”  
  
She  took  another  step  back.    
  
“It  don’t  matter.  What  do  ya  think?  How  ‘bout  forty?  I’ll  give  ya  forty  dollars!  
Think  of  all  you  could  do  with  forty  smackers!  No?  I’m  not  gonna  give  you  sixty.  
That’s  all  the  dough  I  got.”  
  
Bradley’s  hands  moved  to  his  hips.  His  eyes  shifted  towards  the  cliff.  He  was  
contemplating  something.  He  suddenly  looked  at  her  and  took  another  step  forward.  
  
“Alright…sixty.”    
  
Her  breathing  increased.    
  
“Girl…I’m  gonna  get  what  I  want.  I  always  get  what  I  want.”  
  
As  she  took  another  step  backwards,  Darla’s  eyes  frantically  looked  up  
towards  the  still  empty,  JD  less,  cliff.  She  very  nearly  stumbled  over  a  large,  dead  
branch,  and  after  she  saw  it,  she  picked  it  up  and  waved  it  at  the  still  encroaching  
Bradley.    
  
He  laughed.    
  
“I  like  it  when  girls  play  hard  to  get.  Makes  me  want  them  more.  What  you  
gonna  do  girl?  What  you  gonna  do?  You  can’t  hardly  hold  it  up!”    
  

  

11  

At  this  very  moment  JD  stood  up  on  the  cliff.  The  situation  might  have  turned  
out  entirely  differently  if  Bradley  or  Darla  had  known  this.  But  as  Darla’s  focus  was  
now  entirely  set  on  fending  off  Bradley,  and  Bradley’s  focus  was  entirely  on  Darla,  
JD’s  presence  was  left  unknown.  However,  JD  was  able  to  see  quite  well  how  his  
girlfriend,  the  love  of  his  life,  was  continuing  to  move  backwards,  waving  a  large  
piece  of  wood,  almost  as  long  as  she  was,  while  his  cousin  kept  moving  closer.  It  was  
obvious  that  something  was  wrong.  He  gave  a  quick  glance  into  the  water.  It  was  far  
below.    
Standing,  unprotected,  more  than  sixty  feet  in  the  air  is  a  terrifying  
experience.  Jumping  from  the  distance  is  of  course  all  the  more  terrifying.  JD’s  heart  
began  to  pound.  His  blood  churned.  His  pulsed  raced.  He  knew  it  was  always  better  
not  to  look  before  jumping,  but  he  did  so  in  order  to  make  sure  nothing  was  floating  
on  the  surface  that  could  impale  him.  He  briskly  took  five  steps  back  and  then  
sprinted  towards  the  edge.  He  jumped.    
Bradley  lunged  at  Darla.  Whether  or  not  he  was  actually  going  to  attempt  
something,  only  Bradley  could  know.  Perhaps  he  was  only  toying  with  her.  Perhaps  
he  simply  wanted  to  scare  her.  Perhaps  he  was  trying  to  make  Darla  feel  helpless,  as  
he  himself  felt  helpless,  toyed  with,  and  terrified  whenever  his  father  fell  off  the  
wagon  and  beat  him  every  month  or  so.  But  then  again,  Bradley’s  words  and  actions  
suggested  that  whatever  it  was  going  on  in  his  head,  it  wasn’t  good.      
With  this  in  mind,  no  one  could  hold  it  against  Darla  when  she  swung  the  
dead  tree  branch.  No  one  could  hold  it  against  her  that  Bradley  lost  his  balance  
trying  to  dodge  the  decayed  limb.  No  one  could  hold  it  against  her  that  when  he  
stumbled,  he  slipped  on  some  loose  sediment  and  fell  backward,  smacking  the  back  
of  his  head  on  a  large  rock.  No  one  could  hold  it  against  her  when  his  unconscious  
body  began  to  slide  down  the  slope  towards  the  water.  No  one  could  hold  it  against  
her  that  when  his  head  hit  another  rock  hanging  out  from  the  quarry  wall,  it  killed  
him.    
She  watched,  as  the  body  bobbed  and  began  to  float.  Her  legs  crumbled  
beneath  her,  and  when  her  knees  came  in  contact  with  the  stone,  she  started  to  cry.  
JD  was  less  than  thirty  yards  from  Bradley’s  body,  when  it  reached  the  surface  of  the  
grimy  water.  He  hadn’t  seen  a  thing.  His  face  planted  into  the  water,  swimming  like  
an  Olympian,  caring  more  for  speed  than  about  watching  what  was  taking  place.  He  
didn’t  quite  know  how  to  take  it  when  he  did  look  up  for  the  first  time,  and  there,  
directly  in  front  of  him,  was  his  lifeless,  dead  man  floating  cousin.    
By  the  time  JD  was  able  to  pull  out  the  body,  Darla  wasn’t  crying  anymore.  He  
checked  his  cousin’s  pulse.  There  wasn’t  one.  JD  performed  CPR  so  he  could  be  
honest  that  he  at  least  attempted  to  save  Bradley’s  life.  But  after  he  was  sure  his  
cousin  was  dead,  he  stopped  and  walked  over  to  Darla.  He  sat  down  next  to  her.  It  
was  quite  clear  what  happened.  He  didn’t  need  an  explanation  and  so  didn’t  ask  for  
one.  She  was  detached  at  first.  But  right  before  she  placed  her  head  into  his  chest,  
Darla  sobbed  out,  “I’m  sorry.”    
  
He  replied,  “Not  your  fault.”    
  

  

12  

They  stayed  there  in  the  huddled  position,  holding  each  other,  sitting  in  the  
sun.  The  birds  were  noisily  singing.  The  wind  had  picked  up.  JD  was  cold.  Darla  felt  
the  shivering  and  held  onto  him  all  the  more  tightly.    
Five  minutes  passed.  JD  was  trying  to  figure  out  how  they’d  get  the  body  back  
to  the  car  or  if  they  should  call  someone.  But  while  he  looked  across  the  water,  
bright  light  shining  through  the  vibrant  green  colored  needles  of  a  separated  from  
the  pack  pine  tree,  he  suddenly  had  a  thought.  What  caught  his  attention  was  the  
brownish  pile  at  its  base,  decomposing  on  the  ground.    
  
He  said  the  thought  out  loud,  “A  shame  really.  Sometimes  people  get  the  
chance  to  change.”  
    
Darla  started  to  cry  again.            
  
  


