My own mother is a fraud, and what eats at me every single night is I don’t have
the heart to tell my father. My father was a military man, a petty officer in the Navy to
be exact. He served our country honorably in the Gulf War, leaving my Mother and me
to live among the other naval families near the ship yard in Long Beach. I was seven
moving into eight at the time, and with relocation probable after the war, I stayed home
for school with my mother as the willing teacher.
Days back then were great. Breakfast consisted of my favorite high sugar cereals,
along with a solid rotation of omelets, pancakes, or waffles, and of course eggs and
bacon. Afterwards, while my mother watched the news on our miniature, gray, kitchen
television and drank her coffee, I would change out of my pajamas into the outfit laid out
for me the night before so we could begin my English lesson. At that age, English was
my least favorite subject. I wished I had one of those personalized kiddie yearbooks so I
could mark it down as such. She thought it would be best to study first while my energy
and attention was at its peak for the day. I appreciate it more today of course, but back
then I thought I knew it all after breezing through the alphabet and becoming polished in
proper sentence structure. She was always sure to remind me of the importance of
reading and writing whilst I pouted with agitated eagerness to move along, explaining to
me how the ability to master language positively affected my potential success in other
areas. To brighten my spirits we transitioned to history. I loved to learn about the wars
our country took on, and the brave generals who led our troops. I would imagine my own
brave father, and his
heroic acts in battles, hoping one morning I could wake up and see his name or face
grace a page in my history book. My mother would shoot me down once I went
overboard and lost my concentration though, admitting that although my father was as
noble as any, his rank usually did not get recognized among other American heroics
transcribed in our history books, but also adding that he was just as important to the
cause nonetheless. I took her admission with a grain of salt though, and allowed my
imagination to run wild. I would picture him at the helm of his battle ship, navigating the
rough waters, as missiles and cannons destroyed all enemy ships in sight. The crew
would cheer and rave about my father’s exploits and lift him up after another valiant
triumph. Once history and my imagination period ended, we moved to science. I
appreciated my mother’s efforts but even I could tell at the time that it was not her best
subject, subsequently preventing it from being mine. We sort of learned together which
kept it fun. I still laugh thinking about the time my model volcano erupted all over the
breakfast table, and how she shrieked, and pulled her hair in a panic. I remember the
kitchen smelling of vinegar and the sound of sticking rubber on the floor when you
walked through for a couple of days after. I tried to comfort her at such times of
uncertainty and confusion, assuring her that she did a fine job teaching, but lied through
my teeth about her lessons being just as good as at the nearby public schools.
Lunch was usually light. We would sit and talk over my crust less ham or bologna
sandwiches. If the weather was fair, I would beg her to let me sit outside while I ate, and
most the time she would join me. Although she never confessed, I knew she enjoyed the
refreshing air as much as I did, the ocean breeze was a sensation I’ve missed since
moving to rural United States. Besides, I didn’t have a physical education class and if she
wasn’t too tired from the night before we would play a quick game of tag or jump rope
until I gave myself a headache. Math was a difficult subject for me to learn, at least in the
beginning of each new concept. What made it worse was she forbid the use of
calculators. At times I cried of frustration when trying to solve problems in long division,
but she always pushed me through and eventually I got pretty good. I aced those mad
minute multiplication tables and received perfect scores for many of them. In her
estimation, I was a year ahead of most kids my age when it came to math, a thought that
always delighted me with how discouraging it could become at times. My mother felt art
was as vital a subject as any, but instead of instructing me on how to shade or draw
parallel lines, or correctly contrast various colors, she left me to work alone while she
took naps on the couch. She emphasized that my artistic expression was mine alone, and
how neither she nor anyone could teach me how it was properly done, as long as the work
brought its artist peace and joy.
My sole responsibility at the time, a side from cleaning my room, was to wake her
up once my self taught art lesson wrapped up so that she could prepare dinner and make
phone calls. As I dined alone in the living room, I was allowed a half hour of television
viewing. Although she did not like the idea of having one in the home, my father bought
it as a parting gift, and she did not want to spoil the small bit of joy he offered me away
from his presence. After she finished her calls, she would help prepare my bath, and set
out my pajamas for the evening, and also my outfit for the next day’s lessons. I would
play with my toy naval ships in the tub, splashing the water to mimic harsh typhoons
during a stormy night battle until she called me to my room. Once I got settled into bed
she would read to me. This act of love was the highlight of my day as I drifted into sleep
land knowing she was still there with me. Usually by this hour she was fully dressed,
with a scent of perfume clouding her, while her curly black hair rest below her shoulders.
My mother didn’t care much for me asking where she went, but her frequent answers
centered on bingo night at the naval hall, or some other adult function, including in her
answer that grown ups liked to have fun too. I never pressed her too much to avoid
making her upset, but to ease my mind she confessed that she was just going to try and
make enough money so we could continue my lessons. After my stories, if not constantly
checking her watch, we spoke softly about my dad. She chocked up when reminiscing
about his loving nature and how she couldn’t wait for us all to spend more time together.
A magic marker hung from the calendar on my bedroom door, we used it to mark the
days until his ship was due back to port. She relayed the value of a good night’s rest so I
could wake up refreshed to continue my lessons and grow up to be smart so that I could
make a lot of money for myself, and hopefully support my own family one day. Each
night she kissed me on the forehead before quietly shutting my door for the night. As a
light sleeper, a burden that’s plagued me to this day, I recall waking up on a couple of
occasions very late in the night when my body felt heavy like I should be asleep. My
mother would sit on the edge of my bed next to me stroking my hair. I could hear her
sniffling in the dark, and one time a full on sob ensued. Her back and chest moved up and
down and her hands raised up to wipe her eyes dry. Those instances stuck with me,
especially when I got a whiff of cigarettes and booze, as neither vice was practiced by my
parents as far as I could tell. I kept my eyes closed to appear unconscious until she left
my room again, and the feeling of guilt paralyzed me for reasons unexplained fully, just
an intrinsic notion that taboo actions were happening on some level or another. On those

Casualties of War

telling nights I couldn’t go back to sleep, I laid in the darkness while my mind was free to
wander and explore potential scenarios. Only now, in hindsight, can I come to certain
resolutions, but whatever the answer, will just have to remain inconclusive.


