It was a cold and windy December twenty-fifth, so windy
that no boats were allowed to cross the Delaware.

Although the temperature was below freezing, Ben Abbott was
perspiring in his George Washington costume.

When he’d

first begun participating in the Revolutionary Reenactment
more than 30 years ago, he’d been 80 pounds lighter.

And

back then he was not permitted to ride in one of the eight
40-foot Durham boats that recreated the famous battle with
the Hessians.

“What a bummer,” thought Ben.

“’Took me years to get into

the old boat, then I had to be Colonel Hand--nobody ever
heard of him, just the general’s personal physician.
Finally I get to be George Washington and now I can’t even
stand up in my boat, sailing across the River, commanding
my troops.”

Despite the cold, thousands of spectators gathered on both
sides of the Delaware.

From a distance, in red, purple and

yellow parkas, they brightened the dreary landscape.
Scattered vendors were serving hot chocolate and tea and

many of the spectators carried flasks in their pockets.
The air smelled like cinnamon, brandy and chocolate.
Young families, teens, boomers, even some codgers, were all
there to participate in this yearly ritual.

Ben might as well have been wearing the fabled wooden teeth
he was so out of sorts.

He was there alone.

son Adam had opted to visit a friend.

His teen-aged

Ben was afraid if he

insisted that he come, Adam would complain to his mother,
who lived three towns away from them. She might mount yet
another court case to get Adam.

“Oh, God, Dad, don’t you ever get tired of playing George
Washington?” Adam would say.

“You’re at some picnic with

lousy food or at some old public school or at that smelly
old hall for the Veterans of Foreign Wars.”
was starting to enjoy being home alone.

Actually, Adam

He had his

computer games and could call his mother.

Ben didn’t mind “the smelly old halls,” especially since
last year, Governor Corzine had invited Ben to a reception
for New Jersey mayors at Morvan.

Ben came in his costume

and give a brief talk about General Washington’s battles in

New Jersey.

If he wasn’t being George Washington, Ben

moped and ate, even though his girth and his blood pressure
were steadily rising.

Once, Ben’s mother had great plans for her son.

When he

was three or four, Ben would spend hours sitting at his
little table in the corner of the big country kitchen,
making figures out of plasticene.

He designed whole

villages with little men from the faded red clay, while
humming to himself.

“One day you’ll be a great man,” his

mother would tell him.

Sometimes when his parents had

friends over, his mother asked Ben to recite the names of
the U.S. presidents in order.

He was happy to oblige.

But Ben was not happy in school.

The other kids pretty

much ignored him, all except Bryan Donahoe, who, like Ben,
made fun of the other kids and their teachers.

Ben still

remembered one of the cards he left for Mrs. Naus (the kids
called her Mrs. Nauseous) saying, “Silas is read, Macbeth
just blew; you make our class nauseous—P.U.”

While Ben won

praises from Bryan for the nasty notes he wrote to fellow
students and to a teacher or two, Bryan ingratiated himself

with all his teachers and managed to get great grades while
Ben was barely passing.

“You know more than all those teachers,” Ben’s mother, a
first-grade teacher herself, told Ben when he brought home
a poor report card.

“Don’t worry,” she said, “the teachers

are just jealous of you.

Their own kids are stupid.

Colleges will know how smart you are,” she reassured him.
“They’ll all want you.”

None did.

Ben soon found himself about to be drafted to Vietnam.

His

mother and father knew a Congressman and Ben ended up at
Fort Dix in the reserves.

But getting up at 5AM, making

your bed so tightly that a quarter could bounce on the
sheets—otherwise the sergeant would dump the cot over and
you’d have to do it again—then marching in the cold dawn
made Ben ill. He kept going AWOL to see his girlfriend Zoe.
She was so much smarter than all the guys at Fort Dix, Ben
thought, and she always had enough pot for her and Ben to
get high for hours.
from.

Ben never knew where Zoe’s money came

Although her aunt was Mary Roebling, the bank

President, and supposedly the richest woman in New Jersey,
Zoe said they were never in touch.

A year after Ben last

saw Zoe, she committed suicide.

Ben was AWOL five times in three weeks and his sergeant was
happy to get rid of him.

After being dishonorably

discharged, Ben ended up in a mental health clinic.
He spent most of his time in the art studio, creating towns
and people out of clay, not much different from what he did
at four years old, except this time he couldn’t store his
creations in the clinic’s refrigerator.

In fact, after he

was discharged from the clinic, he went back on week-ends
to work on his figures and to see Denise, a former patient
whom he had a crush on.

It was around that time that Ben first saw “The Graduate.”
He loved Dustin Hoffman’s portrayal of Benjamin and he saw
the movie 16 times, finally convincing his Dad to buy him a
second-hand red Alpha Romeo convertible, just like
Benjamin’s, so he could attend the local community college.

Ben spent eight years there.

His greatest success was

participating in an orientation movie for all in-coming

Page 6
students.

In his red Alpha, dubbed “the Benjamin car,” Ben

would ride from building to building (each had an
identifying sign on it), all around the sprawling campus,
so students would know how to find their classes.

Ben finally found a way to graduate and by doing well on a
test, secured a desk job in labor, not management, at the
telephone company.

At about the same time—Ben was in his

early ‘30s—he tried out for a part in a play and the acting
bug bit him.

He was Bill Sykes in “Oliver Twist,” where he

became an angry villain, and the Mayor in “The Music Man,”
where he was the august leader of the town.

But the part

he loved the most was that of the old actor in “The
Fantastics.”

Ben, in long johns—he was thin back then—

played the creaky old man so many times that his only
friend Bryan chided him, saying “you’ll end up like Eugene
O’Neill’s old man.

He played the Count of Monte Cristo so

many times he was never offered another role.”

Indeed, Ben’s life was beginning to resemble one long drama.
At a community theater, he met Jana, a wardrobe volunteer.
Like his former girlfriends, Jana was needy.

Married to a

biologist whom she hated and the mother of a six-year-

Page 7
old whom she neglected, Jana teamed up with Ben.

If they

weren’t in plays, they were watching them or dissecting
each other, ending up in heated battles.

Twice, Jana

emerged with a black eye and a split lip.

When Ben discovered Jana cheating on him, with the lead in
“Most Happy Fella,” he threw a brick through her picture
window and was promptly arrested.

Again, his mother and father came through with another
local politician-friend and Ben avoided jail.

“Why is everyone so fucked up?” Ben wondered as he marched
through one failed relationship after another.

After

living with his parents until his late ’30s, he moved in
with a roommate and eventually bought a townhouse.
time, he was seeing Carrie.

At the

After five years of an on-

again, off-again relationship, Catholic Carrie got pregnant
and refused to have an abortion.

Ben was still acting in plays but the parts were fewer and
farther between and he found he enjoyed being Colonel Hand,
General George Washington’s right-hand man.

The costume,

Page 8
complete with sword, sash, epaulets, knee-high leather
boots and a great tri-cornered hat, was impressive.
felt important.

Ben

Carrie never missed a crossing during the

five years they dated.

When Adam was born, Bryan convinced Ben to spread rumors
that Ben was not Adam’s father.

Bryan hated Carrie, who

was much prettier than his own wife, a mousy woman, who
used to work at the phone company with Ben.

“Say she was screwing everyone,” Bryan told Ben.
agreed although he knew that was not true.

Ben

But Ben, who

was the generous god father of Bryan’s two young children,
could not imagine having his own child.

Plus Ben’s mother

and father did not want Ben to marry Carrie or have to
support a child.

When President Clinton passed the Family and Medical Leave
Act, allowing a parent to take a paid year to care for a
child, Ben reconsidered.

Adam was two at the time, being

cared for by Carrie’s mother, neighbors, practically any
adult who was around.

Since Ben hated his job at the phone

company, he took early retirement and finally found a

Page 9
lawyer to discredit Carrie, who was working and taking
anti-depressants, and convince a Judge to give Ben full
custody of Adam.

Now Ben had a purpose in life; not only was he Colonel Hand,
able to point out every route George Washington took during
the Mercer County battles in 1776, but he also was a single
father, dragging Adam everywhere, even getting a couple of
local newspaper articles on fatherhood.

“Ben knows everyone—he gives advice to all the politicians
and lawyers.”

And he is the perfect father and mother to

Adam,” bragged Ben’s mother.

Meanwhile, Ben kept playing

George Washington—wherever he could get a gig—area
historical societies, schools, bank openings, theatricals;
he now had two complete costumes in case one was at the
cleaners.

He even managed to get a smaller costume for

Adam, who donned it reluctantly.

Adam’s friends’ parents were much younger than Ben.

They

were not interested in George Washington or in
Revolutionary War Battles or in history at all for that

Page 10
matter.

Their world was a technology one, a world with

which Ben was totally unfamiliar.

His mother was still his greatest fan.

Although Ben never

bought her a gift or took her out to dinner, especially
after his Dad died, she called him several times a day
after she retired and encouraged him go on and on about his
George Washington gigs and about his life with Adam.

Gradually, Ben began to realize that his mother was losing
her hearing.

To compensate, she just talked, usually

repeating something Ben told her ages ago or sharing gossip
about her neighbors and friends.

Ben had no interest. Also,

Ben realized his Mother was becoming confused and paranoid.
She went on and on about how one housekeeper after another
was supposedly stealing from her.

That was what Ben was thinking about:
audience.

he’d lost his

As he drove home from Pennsylvania that December

twenty-fifth, he was considering George Washington’s route—
going through Bordentown, Trenton, on to Princeton, wiping
out the Hessian army, when a huge SUV swerved on the ice.
George Washington never knew what hit him.


