“Ah, pinche viejitos mentirosos,” declared my tio Pedro, as he made himself comfortable
by leaning back into the kitchen chair and running his sun-kissed hands through his
silvery-brown hair; finally resting said hands on the top of his head, ready to regale us
with one of his stories. My brother and I chuckled as we settled in for the evening,
imitating our favorite uncle by placing our hands on the top of our heads, eager to listen,
while our parents smiled, and then arranged appetizers on the kitchen table in preparation
for the long night ahead.
“When I was your age, I listened to the stories the old guys recounted and every time I
would think, pinche viejitos mentirosos; of course I never said that, since I was polite, but
I thought it,” reiterated my tio, as he shook his head and grinned. “There was just no way
all those things could happen to someone!”
Yes, that was my tio Pedro. Every year, when we were growing up, he would visit us,
spending the month of May between our house and my tio Chico’s. We all looked
forward to May and his visits, not only to see him and to feel the warmth of his presence,
but also to hear his exciting and magical stories that captivated us. He brought so much
joy and laughter that even last week, years since his passing, my brother, cousins, and I
had the late night giggles thinking about him.
Indeed, my tio Pedro was a unique individual. His mannerisms, expressions, and general
comportment have become familial characteristics. To this day, any tangent in a
conversation has to begin with his catch phrase, “ah, pero para esto” with the right index
finger raised, so as to alert listeners of the upcoming digression.
So please, come and join us at our table. Make yourself comfortable, perhaps by placing
your hands on the top of your head, so I can introduce you to my tio. Let me share with
you one of his many stories. I promise it will only be one story. Well, maybe two
interwoven stories, but definitely no more than that.
Cock-a-doodle-doo, a cock crowed in the distance. Cock-a-doodle-doo, the rooster called
again. This was Pedro’s favorite way to awaken. This simple song transported him to so
many far away locations; occasions filled with happy memories: the 4,000 islands region
of Laos, his grandfather’s farm in central Mexico, and to the ranch where he grew up in
southern California. Pedro had actually been awake for hours; it was another restless
night. He had been lying in bed, with his eyes closed, wishing himself to sleep, telling
himself he was asleep; but he wasn’t.
The rooster cried once more. Pedro loved his call; it let him know that he wasn’t the only
one awake. Morning was near. Soon it would be acceptable to get up and go about the
day. Pedro had always been a poor sleeper, but ever since Elena left him, he hardly slept.
His body was expiring from weariness and lack of sleep; he just wanted to pretend to be
dead to the world, to close his eyes, and just maybe, his body would get the rest it so
desperately needed.
Who was Elena you ask? Elena was Pedro’s soul mate, his partner in crime. They were
always together. They met years earlier when Pedro was hired to analyze data from an
HIV grant that Elena was coordinating. Their offices faced each other and every free
moment led to extensive conversations, reconnecting twin souls on what they had missed
in the current iteration of their lives. Casual acquaintances could never guess that for very
different reasons, they enjoyed the same things, as their strengths complemented each
other seamlessly. In reality they were complete opposites, while remaining true to the
definitions of their names: Elena was the light of Pedro’s life, “la luz de mi vida” he
would say, due of her gaiety, while for Elena, Pedro was her rock, owing to his stability.
More than anything else though, they loved to jet set anywhere and everywhere the
moment they had free time.
Pedro loved adventure. He was keen on traveling and exploring exotic lands. Anything
new or different made him feel alive. He was dumbfounded the first time he laid eyes on
the Grand Canyon; its magnificence was otherworldly. He cried when at sunrise, rising
from the misty jungle, he witnessed the splendor of Angkor Wat. He ran himself ragged,
becoming dehydrated, investigating every ancient place of worship across Cappadocia;
but it was Elena that made his heart skip a beat.
Elena treasured learning and getting to know different peoples and cultures. She reveled
in the pleasure of watching the world go by while sipping mint tea in a Moroccan café or
hiking for days in the Amazonian jungle eager to interact with indigenous villagers. Elena
taught Pedro that there was just as much delight in the journey as in the destination.
Today though, would be Pedro’s first escapade without Elena. He needed to find inner
peace. His world had unraveled. He wanted to look forward to something, to catch a
glimpse of joy and find a ray of his former self. He longed beyond hope that an excursion
could revitalize him, and he knew just the destination, or so he at least hoped: a recently
discovered cave in the selva Lacandona--an area he had first visited as a teenager many
years ago. This was just the trip he needed to clear his head, and besides, he knew Elena
would not have liked this jaunt because she would have been claustrophobic.
Pedro arrived to the cavern by early morning. Intertwined vines and bushy trees obscured
the entrance to the active cave, and only a few yards from the entryway, the cave rapidly
descended about a hundred feet below the surface. The locals were familiar with the
cave’s opening, yet in spite of this, they had not ventured beyond the initial drop. This
seemed a little puzzling, since the task at hand did not seem particularly challenging, but
Pedro did not give this any additional thought.
Pedro did know though, that Elena would not have approved. She was always well versed
with all her options, typically consuming vast amounts of information so that the moment
they arrived to any locale, she immediately knew all the sites and happenings. She would
have researched all there was to know about this cave and spoken to all the well-informed

inhabitants to find out why more exploration had not been done. One of her strengths was
to dig deeper and ask the important follow-up questions; this was not one of Pedro’s
strong suits.
Pedro was eager to descend into the earth; nevertheless duty demanded that he first
needed to survey the situation. His initial plan was to lower himself into the fissure and
then he would be better able to decide on the next steps. He rappelled down to the
bedrock, as was his goal. He then flicked on his lighter to determine oxygen and carbon
dioxide levels. There was a nice strong flame, indicating that the air quality was suitable.
He traversed a short way over boulders and mud filled puddles, zigzagging his way as he
tried to advance following various potential passages, until he entered a cavernous
chamber. His torch, illuminating to its capacity, was unable to fully expose the cavity, as
the magnitude of the space was unreal. Formations dotted the hall. The arrangements of
stalactites and stalagmites created grand structures--columns, an organ, cascading pools,
and numerous translucent tapestries with pleated configurations of various shapes and
patterns. And the colors; oh the colors were breathtaking, including an array of whites,
reds, and turquoise. The cavern was magnificent!
For a second time, Pedro used his lighter to check for high levels of carbon dioxide, as
there was now a slight musty smell, although not dank as of yet. There was also some
visible evidence of decomposing bat guano and rotting vegetation, but the flame from the
lighter once more came back strong, yet again suggesting that the air quality was not a
problem.
He probably should have gone back to his home base then, so that there would be an
accurate account of his exact plan and location, however his excitement for this bold
undertaking was such that he decided to do a little more exploring. After all, he had
brought along all the necessary equipment he would need for this expedition, so there
was no real reason to head back and wait until tomorrow, other than of course to better
inform his surface contact.
Beyond the formations were various passageways that led to who knows where. There
was so much to discover. Pedro rushed about taking in the wonders of this place. He
scampered to the northwest corner of the chamber, where fine needle-like crystals grew
in radiating clusters. He then headed east toward the largest of the pools, which contained
an extraordinary display of cave coral and in the shallows, cave pearls could be found.
Hours went by, and yet it felt like only mere minutes. The running around was beginning
to take a toll and exhaustion was starting to set in. Pedro knew that he should leave the
cave, but he couldn’t--there was so much to admire and take in.
As he studied the sights, Pedro unexpectedly found himself up on a ledge, where a bat
flew by his face, startling him. This slight reaction initiated a series of unfortunate events.
First he slipped on the smooth dripstone, causing him to topple over and hit his head
against a crag, thereby shattering his headlamp, while his handheld flashlight flew out of

3

his grasp and smashed into a pillar, breaking his trusty guide. Pedro then crashed onto the
earth, crushing his lighter in the process. This left him lying on the ground, knocked out
cold in complete and utter darkness.
*

*

*

*

*

Ah, pero para esto, nine years earlier, the night before the Great Saunter, a thirty-two
mile walk around the entire perimeter of Manhattan, Elena convinced Pedro to participate
in the event. The next day, they jumped out of bed, took the subway to South Street
Seaport, registered, and started walking. They were not prepared, they did not train, nor
did they bring food or water, so they wasted time and energy going into bodegas to obtain
the sustenance they needed as they hiked.
They quickly strolled up the Upper West Side, surpassing many of the other walkers.
Having reached the halfway point at the northern tip of Manhattan, they had a leisurely
lunch, while watching a baseball game at Inwood Hill Park. This was their crucial
mistake, as Pedro’s legs began to cramp up and his muscles tightened. He hobbled his
way down the Upper East Side and a short while later, his hamstrings completely gave
out. The last few miles Pedro could only managed to shuffle his feet, before bowing out
at mile twenty-eight; Elena could have kept going but she adjourned with her companion.
*

*

*

*

*

Some time later, our so-called main protagonist came to. Nothing was broken; he himself
was only bruised and a little sore, but otherwise he was fine. On the other hand his
headlamp, flashlight, and lighter were not, as they were rendered useless due to the fall.
The cavern was pitch black. Pedro could not see a thing, not even when he placed his
hand directly in front of his face. How was he going to get out? He tried to recall where
exactly he was in the chamber; from which direction he entered. If he crawled around,
would something feel familiar? Had he first gone to the large pool and then to the organlike formation, or was it the other way around? It was then that he first noticed the dull
pain pulsating his temples. He let out a sigh, closed his eyes, and put his left hand to his
forehead. What had he gotten himself into?
Pedro’s thoughts wandered towards Elena. She was crazy. Yes, he was the one that liked
to take risks, but once they had achieved their goal, he was happy with their
accomplishment, while she needed to push him out of his comfort zone just a little bit, to
keep him on his toes and not let him get too comfortable. Maybe it was her way of
getting back at him for treading dangerously on the edge.
While in this black hole, ruminating about his partner, Pedro’s senses came together to
detect a slight breeze. He opened his eyes and felt the puff of air again. A light wind was
coming from his right side, and if he was not mistaken, there was a sound as well. He
wasn’t one hundred percent sure what he was hearing. Was it the howling of wind? Was
it the flowing of water? He had not seen water before he entered the cave, but the locals

4

had warned him of an underground river that over the years had swept away various
residents.
Pedro thought about his options and decided that his best bet was to follow the flow of
air. He jumped to his feet and took a couple of steps in the direction of the draft, which
was not as noticeable at this height, before bumping his head into a stalactite. His eyes
could not adjust to the complete darkness of the abyss. He got down on his hands and
knees, and guiding himself by touch, he began to crawl in the direction of the air current.
He crawled for hours. Pedro knew he was not advancing much, but he felt hope in that
the breeze and the as yet unidentifiable sound were getting stronger. His knees and the
palms of his hands were raw from the constant friction, yet he persisted until in the
distance he saw something.
There seemed to be a dot of light, a strange glow. As he approached, the dot grew into a
ray; it was some type of luminescence. After a few more yards he was able to see enough
of his surroundings so that he began to walk slowly toward the illumination. Pedro was
very excited considering that this could potentially be a way out of the cavern. As he
rounded the corner, finally having a direct view of the light, he entered a grotto that was
illuminated by stars--the stars however were radiating diamonds!
There were gems of every shape, size, and color. Pedro sat down to contemplate the
radiance. He felt an energy producing sensation from the glimmering diamonds, maybe a
state of nirvana. Out of the blue it seemed as though all his troubles had left him. He lay
down and closed his eyes. Pedro felt joy, and he was happy--he was really, really happy;
a sensation he had not experienced in a very long time.
Miniscule particles fluttered about. There was no rhyme or reason to the dancing of these
twinkling spirits. Some sailed downward, others floated upward, there were certain ones
that hovered in place, while several coasted from side-to-side, and then there were even a
handful that performed loop-de-loops.
This place reminded Pedro of Elena. He could sense her presence--he felt so at home. He
missed her so much. Yes, he had countless memories of her and hundreds of pictures, but
he wanted, no, he needed to hear her voice. How he missed that sweet, beautiful, familiar
voice. “Focus.” Yes, that is what he needed to do. Almost instantly he could see himself
exiting the cave, while guided by the most perfect diamond.
Pedro opened his eyes and turned his gazed in the direction he knew he needed to look.
There, in an almost hidden nook in the firmament, was his North Star, his diamond--the
light of his life! Pedro, with mouth agape, contemplated the precious stone, which was
surrounded by a rainbow colored halo, created by the light refracted off the neighboring
crystals.
Pedro knew this was what he had been searching for all his life. He was sure of it. And in
an inexplicable way, it seemed as though the diamond was calling for him. Pedro began

5

to climb the rock face so he could reach the jewel, but after scaling a few feet, he slipped
and fell. He tried again, and again he tumbled, but on the third attempt he succeeded in
reaching the diamond.
With astonishing ease Pedro was able to extract the gem from the igneous rock. He then
quickly descended, with the diamond in tow. Surprisingly the diamond was hot and it
seemed to move, but of course this was caused by his excitement--his imagination was
just getting the best of him. As Pedro left the room of diamonds, the grotto dimmed, but
his treasure continued to emanate brilliance.
Following the increasing wind and guided by the light given off by the diamond, Pedro
was able to better navigate the labyrinth. As he approached what turned out to be the final
bend, the sun’s blinding rays greeted him. Everything was bright white and he could not
see. He closed his eyes and realized that the previously unidentifiable sound was water;
he was surrounded by it. Once his eyes became accustomed to the glaring sunlight, he
noticed that directly in front of him a wall of boulders separated the cave from a
thunderous river. He also observed that a few yards from where he stood, another set of
large rocks forced the river to dive underground, therefore in order to exit the cave, he
would need to somehow ford the large channel of water before getting swept underneath
the rocks.
Pedro placed the diamond in his backpack and manipulated his rope to create a lasso,
which he used to snare a boulder on the opposite bank of the river. He then tied the other
end of the line to himself before attempting to cross the waterway. As he waded, the taut
rope burned his skin as he flailed in the water, but eventually, half-drowned, he was able
to make his way across the roaring torrent. Having reached dry land, Pedro gasped for air.
His legs crumbled beneath him. He tried to lift himself off the ground, but his arms could
not raise his torso. Collapsed from exhaustion, Pedro slept for a short while to regain his
strength.
*

*

*

*

*

Ah, pero para esto, ten months earlier was the weekend of the Great Saunter. Pedro and
Elena were now older, slower, and heavier, but they decided to confront their old
nemesis. They trained for weeks by going on hikes with differing degrees of difficulty
and distance. And even though they were unable to make it to New York City for the
actual event, they mapped out a thirty-two mile course in the lakes region of New
Hampshire, with considerable more elevation.
This time they were well prepared with the necessary supplies and equipment, including
Elena’s lucky orange US Open baseball cap, a gift from Pedro. They started walking
slowly, but were consistent. Two-thirds of the way through the route, they were fairly
confident they would be able to walk the thirty-two miles, unless if something
unexpected occurred.

6

It was rather uneventful really. No fist-pumping celebration. No battle to the finish with a
thirty-two mile monster. In the end it was just a casual twelve hour stroll between soul
mates, taking in the sights: the lakes, houses, winding roads, hills, valleys, streams,
ponds, and horse ranches. Walking thirty-two miles never seemed easier.
*

*

*

*

*

Upon awaking, Pedro immediately made his way to the nearest hospital, to make sure
that his time in the cave did not engender any ill effects. Throughout the journey, warm
feelings of love enveloped him. He pondered how the diamond not only appeared to be
leading him, but also how it felt as though both he and the diamond were feeding off each
other, as the gemstone seemed to grow hotter and pulsated with stronger vibrations that
he could feel through his backpack.
In stark contrast to the cave, the hospital was bitterly cold and seemed utterly bleak. After
describing his ordeal to the doctor, she began a physical examination. Pedro removed his
backpack and placed it on the floor. He then clumsily took off his shirt and braced
himself for the icy stethoscope. His breathing slowed and became shallow. He began to
shiver uncontrollably and his speech became slurred. The doctor looked very puzzled
when she failed to perceive a heartbeat. As she tried again to detect a pulse, Pedro
suddenly crumpled onto the floor. The doctor and her team tried to revive him by
performing CPR and using a defibrillator, they then immediately transported Pedro to an
operating room.
In the midst of open-heart surgery, the surgeon discovered that all the arteries and veins
were in good working order, but the actual organ itself, with its chambers, walls, and
conductive system, was old and shriveled; very much in a state of decomposition, as if
Pedro’s heart had wasted away.
The doctors were perplexed. They had no way of explaining what they were witnessing.
This just didn’t make any sense. He seemed fine when he first walked into the hospital.
He had just been through such an incredible adventure! How was someone with a heart in
such poor condition even alive? Did the cave gravely impact Pedro’s heart?
*

*

*

*

*

After such an epic march, Pedro assumed they would go home, shower, eat, and call it a
night; Elena though had other plans. She wanted to say hello to the lake and take a quick
dip to soak her blistered feet in its cooling waters. The days were long this time of year
consequently, Elena asked Pedro to pickup a couple of pizzas from the Pine Cone Café,
that was just a few miles down the road, so they could have a celebratory picnic on the
lake shore.
As Pedro drove away, Elena phoned in the order, a meat lover’s pizza for him and a
peppers and onions pizza for her. A few minutes later, Pedro arrived at the restaurant,

7

however the early-summer crowds had descended and the eatery was buzzing; it would
be another forty-five minutes until their order was ready.
Just as nine years earlier, Pedro’s legs tightened, and he had a noticeable limp as he got
out of the car and walked toward where he had left Elena. The beach was unusually quiet,
deserted even, with not a soul about. The sun, inching closer toward sunset, sparkled on
the crystal clear, calm water. The reflections of the pine trees and clouds created exact
replicas of themselves on the water’s surface. The lake was absolutely stunning--picture
perfect. It was then that Pedro noticed the faded orange baseball hat bobbing in the water-the hat that never left her side.
What happened next is a blur. My tio Pedro was never able to describe this part of the
story. He said he had no memory of anything that happened after he saw the baseball
cap.
Some time later, as first responders pulled away, Pedro looked in the rearview mirror and
did not recognize the old, withered, defeated boxer, with cast-down eyes and rounded
shoulders that lay in front of him. His head was going to explode; he took the deepest
breath of his life, which was all he could do to keep himself from bawling uncontrollably.
The sun was setting, tears were falling, and dreams floated away.
A week later, at her wake, Pedro concluded his eulogy by emphasizing: “Elena had a
wonderful life, full of many incredible adventures, which took pause when she passed
away. This is not the end. Now is the time for her to rest, heal, recover, and prepare
herself to begin a new chapter. The sun will rise again, one-day joy will fill our hearts,
clouds will float on by, and we will emerge from the shadows.”
*

*

*

*

*

Just then, a nurse ran into the operating room, yelling at the top of her lungs that a beating
heart was inside Pedro’s backpack. Bewildered, the doctors looked at Pedro’s
unresponsive body. Why was there a heart inside the backpack? Could this enigmatic
heart save Pedro’s life?
Wasting no time, the surgeon prepared the heart for the surgical intervention and then
performed the transplant, attaching the life-saving organ to where the rottenness had
been. Little did the doctors know that the diamond, Pedro’s light in the dark--the light of
his life, had metamorphosed itself into his heart!
-------------------------------------------------------------No, no, you are mistaken; this is not a sad story. This is an anecdote of hope, and a
narrative of soul mates rekindling their love. In fact, my tio Pedro claimed that on the day
of his successful heart transplant, he and Elena were once again reunited; and that the
operation allowed my tia Elena to resume where she belonged--impregnating his soul and
sharing in their life’s journey.

8

You see, every aspect of my tio’s life was a story, full of adventure and wonder--I think
that was just the way he saw the world. He was someone that sensed, or maybe just
elected to focus on phenomena that most of us miss or take for granted.
Was he prone to exaggeration? Maybe, but whenever I’ve asked my dad if an account
was true, he would nod his head and agree that that was pretty much the way it happened.
My tio Pedro was a truly happy person who spoke of Elena often, as if she was still with
us: I think that for him, she was. I don’t know which parts of this story are true. My tio
did have a heart transplant after exploring a cave, and my dad says that after the surgical
procedure my tio Pedro did transform himself into the light-hearted person I know and
love--maybe that really was Elena’s influence in some way. Unfortunately I never had the
pleasure of meeting my tia. I wish I had--she must have been truly magnificent to enrich
a character larger than life. On the other hand, maybe I have come to know my tia
through my tio’s actions and demeanor, and in this way, they both continue to live in our
hearts and brighten our lives.

9


