Of course, ‘love’ is the answer to all the questions these uniformed imbeciles
are asking me.

Why were you carrying a hammer?
Why were you on that particular road, her road?
What is your understanding of why she took out a Restraining Order against
you in the first place?

Do you see how patronising that is? Not ‘the reason’, but ‘your
understanding’. Police officers, judges, psychiatrists, do they go on some
specialist smugness development course? Or are they just born like that?
But of course I won’t tell them my answer. I’ll tell them the answers
they want. These people would never understand my understanding.

I’ll

just humour them. I’m not crazy. Despite what they might want you to
believe, with their ‘choice’ of anti-psychotic medications, their Mental Health
Act assessments and their Community Psychiatric Nurses.

It’s quite the

scam they’ve got going on. ‘Observing’ you on the ward and ‘supervising’ you
in the community. And they have the temerity to talk to me about stalking!
And if you stand up to them, tell them to stop prying into your
business, guess what? Suddenly you are paranoid. You are becoming
agitated and verbally aggressive. Off goes that alarm, summoning the burly
thugs dressed like psychiatric nurses. Out comes that needle. Another
update for the old Risk Assessment document. Their precious secret
scripture, that influences your freedom, your future. And now your
discharge gets delayed yet again, and they’ve created more business for
themselves. It’s actually quite clever when you think about it. Bravo to
them.
You see, basically, it’s all just a game of chess. But nobody has ever
bothered explaining the rules. You have to figure them out yourself, along
the way. Which moves work, and which don’t. Which choices are really
choices, and which masquerade as them. How to respond to their trick
questions. Why do I think I am ready for discharge? Do I have any thoughts
or intentions of trying to contact her again? Will I take my medication after
I’ve left hospital? Am I still hearing voices? It’s easy once you figure out the
moves. Blah, blah, blah, remorse, regret, thank you all for your support and
for helping me recover. Blah, blah, blah, for giving me the opportunity to
reintegrate into society. Checkmate.
Speaking of creating more business for themselves, this morning I had
a flashback of that time I told my mum how I that the tooth fairy must be a
scam. I think I was six at the time. Actually, it must have been after the
divorce, because we were taking the bus. So, maybe seven. If a kid finds
money under their pillow, what’ll they spend it on? She didn’t say sweets.
She didn’t say anything.

She sat there, scowling. For as long as I can

remember, a scowl and excessive make-up have been permanent features of
her face, as much as that mole under her lip. I asked again. She told me to
shut up and eat my crisps. I asked again. She slapped me. I didn’t ask
again. She was hardly the consummate conversationalist, old mother dear.
You see my point, though, right? More sweets, equals more rotten teeth.
Bravo to the tooth fairy. Quite the scam.
I suppose she was a good teacher, old mother dear. She taught me
how to handle people, how to keep them in line. Get them first, before they
got you. Much more useful in the real world, than one of these softie
mothers that mollycoddle you, with hugs and affection and fairy tales. And
she made her own choices. Eventually. Taking the bus, stacking shelves,
and having to live in a cramped flat. Rather than relative luxury and having
to live with that man.
She was alright, Mum. I almost feel bad about what happened.

Anyway. I’m digressing, aren’t I? What I’m trying to say, is that I’m not
actually crazy. Crazy in love, maybe. Yes, I sound like a sop, but that’s the
kind of nicety I would convey to her. My beloved. When I finally get the
chance. So many hurdles. So many interfering professionals to appease.
Love is also a game of chess. A more delicate one, maybe. But you also
have to figure out the rules yourself, along the way. Which moves work, and
which don’t. More choices. When to approach, and when to stay hidden.
What she is saying with her words and her Restraining Order. Versus, what
she is really saying with her eyes. How she can so elegantly throw you a
clandestine look of love, disguised within a look of neutrality. Or even fear.
Sometimes, it’s so subtle, it’s not even visible. It’s more a message.
Transmitted by her, my beloved, for my brainwaves only. How can I deny a
love like that?
When they ask me if I have any thoughts or intentions of trying to
contact her again, can you see what the real answer is? What it always will
be?
Recently, though, it feels like we’re heading towards stalemate. But I
think I’ve figured it out. I just need to remove her most powerful piece from
the board. That, Officer, is why I was carrying a hammer.
But what these people, these interfering professionals, Police Officers
with their questions about my hammer, Dr Swami; that obese foreign
psychiatrist, my eternally-sucking-a-lemon-faced Probation Officer, what
they will never understand is that this is part of our courting ritual. Our
game of chess. She is testing me. Making me prove I love her enough. To go
the extra mile. The average man would have given up by now.

But I’m special. I have the ability to see hidden messages. And they are
everywhere. On people’s faces, even in people’s faces, in the colour patterns
of passing cars, even buried in TV news reports. If you look hard enough.
They don’t understand it, so they call me crazy. Yeah? Well, when Aristotle
proclaimed that the earth is round in 300BC, they called him crazy.

4

Sifting through her rubbish for receipts. Her favourite perfume is CK
Obsession. A bit too musky for me at first, but after several weeks on my
pillow, I’ve grown to love it. Like she will with me. Checking out what dishes
she likes to orders, so I know what to cook for her, when I finally get a
chance. Admittedly, this got trickier after she changed pubs for her Friday
lunch outing with her colleagues. I knew she spotted me from the other side
of Harvester! I would, I will, go above and beyond. Not like that prick, her
so-called husband. He’s just an errant nail. A problem I could fix in a few
seconds with my hammer. That’s my next move. Remove her most powerful
piece from the board.
And no, it’s not about sex! Control your filthy mind. Of course, I can’t
control my dreams.

Last night, her purple silk nightie slipping off her

porcelain shoulders. The one that prick bought for her from Anne Summers
for Valentine’s Day two years ago. £29.99.

‘Eroto-mania’.

That is what the obese foreign Dr Swami calls it. I’m not too fond of
the doctor’s definition, but I quite like the sound of the phrase. It poetically
describes the passion I feel for my beloved. Though Dr Swami would
probably only focus on my so-called anger. And force me to talk about it,
again. Of course, she would. Creating more business for herself. Quite the
scam. But what is anger if not the cousin of passion?

5

“A delusional belief that a person is in love with the affected individual.”

Do you see how clunky, how clinical, the doctor’s definition is? Dr
Swami’s husband is also foreign but looks about ten years younger and ten
kilos lighter than her. She lives in Hampstead and on Sunday mornings
goes to a café in the park with her kids, reads her Guardian (of course) and
orders a skinny cappuccino with sugar-free hazelnut syrup.

Know thy

enemy. She must harbour a delusional belief that a person is in love with
her, as opposed to that whopping salary a consultant doctor gets. She is the
affected individual. Let’s just say the skinny and sugar-free is too little too
late.
Last year, on the ward, Dr Swami told me that I had a choice. Oh
yeah?

Then, why did she telling me, whilst standing between two burly

thugs dressed like psychiatric nurses? Does that sound like a choice to you?
Have you ever been to a psychiatric ward? Have you ever had the
pleasure of a Mental Health Act assessment? ‘My home away from home’.
That’s what that chirpy Occupational Therapist used to say.

Constantly

smiling, even when surrounded by those shuffling zombies. She even made
that poor schizophrenic schmuck, Mikey, embroider it onto a rag, and then
frame it and hang it above the entrance to Jupiter Ward. We all applauded
him at the Patients’ Daily Planning Meeting the next morning. All inane
smiles and enthusiastic claps from the staff, and drooling indifference from

6

the patients. I clapped as well. Obviously. Playing their game. Acquiescing,
for now.
I looked out for Mikey on the ward. Crashing him the odd fag, making
him cups of tea. Even though I knew I would never get a return on my
investment. Real empathy. In private, away from the glamour of the Patients’
Daily Planning Meeting. Not pumping him full of chemicals, turning him into
a shuffling zombie. Poor schmuck.

Must be hard to be actually crazy.

Thinking he is the illegitimate son of Jesus. How is he supposed to figure
out the rules as he goes along?
Jupiter Ward was more like a prison away from prison. Trust me. I
would know. If I ever end up back there, perhaps I can get that chirpy
Occupational Therapist to support me in embroidering that onto a rag.

I’m digressing again, aren’t I? As I said, Dr Swami offered me a choice.
Either anti-psychotic tablets, or depot injections.

Does that sound like a

choice to you? She even tried to appease me with options for the brand of
poison; Olanzapine, Risperidone or Quetiapine. That’s like telling me I could
choose between gonorrhoea, syphilis or chlamydia. Handing me a Patient
Information Leaflet like a menu, and hanging around with a polite waiterlike bow, waiting for my order.
But I knew that there was also one other option. I could force that
needle out of the hands of her minions and shove it into the doctor’s obese

7

foreign face. But there’s no point wasting another few years at Her Majesty’s
pleasure. Not for that, anyway.
I figured out the right move. The right choice. Take the oral
medication while you’re on the ward, and wait for discharge. And just pray
that you get released before they’ve turned you into a shuffling zombie. Once
you’re out, the Community Psychiatric Nurse will know if you don’t turn up
for your monthly depot injection. But nobody knows if you’re taking tablets
at home. Prying into your business, ‘supervising’ you in the community.
They’re not as slick as they think. Checkmate.

And now here I am. Caught carrying a hammer. On my way to remove her
most powerful piece from the board. On that particular road, her road. I’ll
need to be more careful next time. These uniformed imbeciles are asking me
these questions. It’s my move, and I need to be careful now. To give them
the answers they want. To humour them.
I’ll have to sacrifice some time now. Hopefully months at Dr Swami’s
pleasure, rather than years at Her Majesty’s. It’s not ideal, but it’s okay.
Patience is part of this courting process. What they don’t understand, what
maybe you don’t understand, is that time is just another sacrifice I’m willing
to make for her. For us.
Why? you may ask. And you should ask. It’s an important question.

Once again, ‘love’ is the answer.

8


