It  was  the  winter  of  2011  and  ‘12,  my  first  Code  Blue,  and  the  shelter  was  
standing-­‐room  only.  The  beds  filled  up  and  the  men  kept  coming,  and  by  midnight  
the  linoleum  floor  of  the  dayroom  was  covered  with  them,  their  coats  rolled  up  
under  their  heads.  Normally  the  shelter  would  close  its  doors  once  it  hit  capacity.  
Normally  if  someone  who  came  for  a  bed  was  clearly  intoxicated  or  aggressive  or  
problematic  they’d  be  turned  away,  for  the  benefit  of  the  rest  of  the  men.  Not  so  
during  a  Code  Blue.    
“Home  is  the  place  where,  when  you  have  to  go  there,  they  have  to  take  you  in,”  
I  joked  once  with  a  guy  in  the  dayroom.  “Robert  Frost  said  that.”  
“Whoever  said  it  never  spent  a  night  on  that  floor.”  
What  first  drew  our  attention  to  John,  then,  was  this:  about  a  week  into  the  
Code  Blue  his  number  was  called,  meaning  a  bed  had  opened  up  with  his  name  on  it,  
and  he  passed.  
“But  don’t  you  want  to  get  up  off  that  linoleum?”  Miss  Bet,  the  shelter  
manager,  asked.  Besides  being  harder  than  any  sidewalk  in  the  city,  the  dayroom  
floor  was  scrubbed  with  pine  oil  every  day.  
“I  would  rather  the  bed,”  said  John,  “go  to  someone  who  needs  it.”  That  same  
hour  he  was  referred  to  me,  the  shelter’s  mental  health  case  manager,  for  immediate  
assessment.  John  sat  in  my  office,  Bible  in  lap,  and  answered  my  questions  politely  
and  without  elaboration.    
“Hey.  How  you  doing?”    
“Fine,  thank  you.”  
“King  James?”    

“Yes,  sir.”  
“So  what  brings  you  in?  All  that  snow?”    
“The  police.”  
This  was  the  other  side  of  the  coin  of  the  Code  Blue:  not  only  was  the  city  
required  to  make  room  for  everyone  who  wanted  to  come  inside,  they  weren’t  
allowed  to  leave  them  a  choice.  Outreach  went  around  in  vans  through  the  snow,  
giving  out  the  Code  Blue  Ultimatum:    
“Ladies  and  gentlemen,  you  know  the  drill.  City  called  a  Code  Blue-­‐-­‐time  to  
come  inside.  To  shelter.  Because  of  the  weather.  Because  it’s  not  safe  out  here.  No,  
Miss  Shelly,  that  abandominium  on  forty-­‐eighth  don’t  count  as  coming  inside.    
Because  is  there  heat  and  water?  Is  there  windows?  If  the  answer  is  no,  no,  and  no,  
then  all  that’s  why  it  don’t  count.  So  pile  in  now,  plenty  room  in  the  van.  Anyone  
want  to  stick  around,  police  are  right  behind  me  with  a  whole  stack  of  302s  ready  to  
sign  your  life  away.”    
302  being  a  petition  for  involuntary  psychiatric  inpatient  treatment.    
Line  of  reason  being:  you’d  have  to  be  nuts  to  stay  out  here  in  this.  A  clear  
and  present  danger  to  yourself.  
To  hear  him  tell  it  that  afternoon  in  my  closet  of  an  office,  John  was  not  nuts:  
he  turned  down  the  bed  because  he  wasn’t  planning  on  staying  long  anyway.  As  
soon  as  the  weather  let  up  he’d  be  back  out  there,  and  he  didn’t  want  to  take  up  the  
bed  when  it  might  make  a  difference  in  the  life  of  the  person  behind  him.    
“Even  the  simple  act  of  me  laying  in  that  bed,”  John  finished,  “is  selfish.  I’d  be  
taking  it  away  from  someone  who  needs  it.  Possession  is  theft.”  

I  wrote  that  down,  tickled,  and  thanked  him  for  his  time.  He  was  in  bad  need  
of  a  shave  and  the  smell  of  him  stuck  around  after  he’d  left,  and  of  course  there  were  
the  clothes-­‐-­‐he  refused  the  fresh  change  I’d  offered.  But  part  of  the  reason  I  took  the  
job  in  the  first  place  was  to  extend  the  benefit  of  the  doubt  to  the  somewhat  
doubtful.  And  anyway  it  wasn’t  all  doubt  with  John.  He  was  well-­‐spoken.  He  was  
soft-­‐spoken.  He  made  perfect  sense  once  you  actually  sat  him  down.  
“Well  it  doesn’t  make  sense  to  me,”  said  Miss  Bet  that  next  day.  She  waved  the  
list  of  referrals  in  my  face,  which  I’d  left  John  off  of.  “You’re  supposed  to  be  here  to  
help  us  handle  the  ones  with  the  mental  health,  and  here  this  man  comes  in  crazy  as  
a  bedbug  and  you’re  the  one  keeping  him  from  help.”    
(On  my  role,  briefly:  I  acted  as  go-­‐between  for  the  shelter  and  the  
psychiatrist.  Before  my  time,  Miss  Bet  would  make  referrals  directly  to  Dr.  Van  Zijl-­‐-­‐
they  created  my  position  in  part  to  weed  out  the  ones  who  were  simply  strange  or  
sad  from  making  it  to  the  psych,  saving  the  psych  time  and  thus  the  shelter  money.  
To  quote  Dr.  Van  Zijl  from  the  first  referral  I  ever  made  to  him,  on  what  
constitutes  an  appropriate  referral:  “Of  course  he’s  depressed,  he’s  homeless.  It’s  the  
ones  whistling  dixie  that  ought  to  ring  bells  for  you.  Write  that  down.”  
And  then,  briefly,  on  me:  this  was  my  first  real  job.  I  had  been  an  English  
Major  and  always  figured  I'd  teach  or  something.  I  was  twenty-­‐five.  I  wrote  a  lot  of  
things  down  that  first  year.)  
A  few  days  after  I  left  him  off  that  referral  list,  then,  John  was  found  in  a  
bathroom  stall  arguing  with  what  seemed  like  nobody  at  all.  
“Arguing,  shoot.  That  man  was  engaged  in  a  one-­‐sided  screaming  match  with  

his  own  damn  echoes,  excuse  my  language.”  
I  went  ahead  and  made  the  psych  referral.  As  I  filled  it  out  Miss  Bet  leaned  
over  my  shoulder  told-­‐you-­‐so.  She  always  smelled  like  butterscotch  but  not  in  a  
good  way.  
I  sat  in  on  all  the  psych  evals,  and  by  this  point  was  used  to  Dr.  Van  Zijl’s  style  
of  approach-­‐-­‐it  reminded  me  of  that  Jackie  Chan  movie-­‐-­‐the  drunken  master,  the  
way  it  lulled  and  disarmed,  and  how  you  could  never  be  sure  which  of  the  
movements  he  made  were  intentional.  He  offered  some  choice  parables  from  the  
Bible  with  John,  and  then  moved  on  to  swap  camping  stories-­‐-­‐John  was  only  passing  
through  Philadelphia,  it  turned  out.  He  lived  on  the  road,  and  kept  mostly  to  wooded  
areas.  Van  Zijl,  in  turn,  considered  himself  a  pilgrim  of  the  Appalachian  Trail.  Just  as  
I  went  to  check  my  phone  the  doctor  made  a  sharp  left  turn  into  the  consequential:  
“So  why  not  tell  me  about  these  voices?”  
“Not  voices,”  John  said,  calm  and  practiced.  It  was  a  conversation  he’d  had  
before.  “Voice.”  
“So,”  I  said,  “there’s  only  one  of  them?”  Van  Zijl  shot  me  a  look.  
“There  is,”  said  John,  looking  me  dead  in  the  chest,  “only  one  God.”  I  wrote  
that  down.  This  would  become  central  to  the  way  in  which  I  understood  John,  and  
distinct  from  the  rest  of  my  clients  with  schizophrenia:  whereas  for  most  the  voices  
were  a  burden,  a  curse,  source  of  anxiety,  confusion,  terror-­‐-­‐in  John’s  case  the  
hallucinations  were  something  to  hold  on  to,  an  ongoing  conversation  with  God.  
We  talked  a  little  about  hospitalizations  and  Van  Zijl  couldn’t  believe  John  
was  old  enough  to  have  been  at  Byberry.  This  was  another  thing  about  John-­‐-­‐he  

Psychotropic  Ultimatums  and  John  the  Baptist  
looked  like  he  was  in  his  later  thirties-­‐-­‐full  head  of  hair,  no  lines  to  his  face-­‐-­‐but  the  
man  was  fifty-­‐two.  Already  two  years  past  the  average  life  expectancy  for  somebody  
so  homeless  for  so  long.  
When  the  conversation  turned  to  meds,  John’s  face  clouded  over.  It  struck  me  
then  what  a  forehead  he  had,  broad  and  high  and  darkening  now,  and  somehow  
deepening.  John  said  that  if  that  was  the  way  things  were  going  to  go,  he  would  leave  
out  this  afternoon,  Code  Blue  or  not.    
“I  appreciate  what  you’re  trying  to  do,”  John  said,  calmly  and  practiced,  “but  
I’d  rather  take  my  chances  out  there.”  
“What  do  you  think?”  VZ  asked  me  afterward,  and  straightaway  told  me  his  
thoughts:  that  we  could  go  either  way-­‐-­‐on  the  one  hand,  John  was  fairly  
symptomatic,  but  then  on  the  other  he  seemed  somewhat  in  possession  of  himself,  
and  this  very  well  might  be  his  baseline,  and  we  might  be  doing  more  harm  than  
good,  scaring  him  off  into  the  woods,  in  winter.    
“Cutting  him  off  from  God,  right?”  I  was  captivated  by  it  all.  
“Sure.  But  isn’t  there  just  something  about  him  that  just  gives  you  the  
creeps?”  said  VZ.  “Maybe  it’s  the  hair.  It’s  like  a  bunch  of  spiders  up  there,  having  a  
meeting.”  
I  gave  him  shit  for  that,  pointing  out  that  a  psychiatrist  who  wears  as  much  
denim  as  he  did  might  give  someone  the  creeps  too,  especially  when  they  call  
themselves  a  pilgrim  in  a  psych  eval  and  tell  unsolicited  story  after  unsolicited  story  
of  their  Catholic  school  days-­‐-­‐  
“You  like  this  guy,  huh?”  

Psychotropic  Ultimatums  and  John  the  Baptist  
It  was  the  first  decision  he  ever  deferred  to  me,  not  to  medicate  John,  and  I  
handed  it  down  to  Miss  Bet  without  a  trace  of  who-­‐told-­‐who.  I  wasn’t  here  for  told-­‐
you-­‐so’s,  and  afterward,  walking  through  the  day  room  John  gave  me  a  nod  and  I  
gave  one  back.  This  was  what  I  was  here  for.  I  coasted  home  on  my  bicycle  that  night  
and  while  everyone  else  was  asleep  John  rose  from  his  place  on  the  linoleum  floor.  
He  went  without  a  word  or  sound  to  the  dayroom  window,  put  his  head  against  it  
several,  several  times,  collapsed  in  a  pool  of  blood  and  shatter-­‐proof  glass,  and  woke  
sixteen  hours  later,  in  a  place  he  wouldn’t  make  sense  of  until  another  two  months  
had  passed,  to  the  sight  of  a  young  woman  with  green  eyes  plugging  a  tube  into  his  
arm.  
*  
“Thorazine  was  the  real  game-­‐changer,  just  in  terms  of  what  we  could  do  
with  them,”  VZ  told  me  during  one  of  those  talks  I  would  have  with  him,  back  when  I  
first  started.  They  were  meant  to  provide  context  on  some  of  the  guys  I  was  working  
with,  their  illnesses  and  treatments,  and  took  place  after  hours,  at  the  same  dive  bar  
I  used  to  go  to  in  college  because  they  never  ID’ed:    
“People  have  these  very  strong  thoughts  and  opinions  about  some  of  the  
heavier  hitting  antipsychotics,  and  that’s  fine,  and  a  lot  of  it’s  valid-­‐-­‐I  mean,  we’re  
still  not  exactly  sure  how  it  all  works.  But  without  Thorazine,  and  here’s  the  point,  
we  could  have  never,  say,  closed  Byberry.  You  don’t  know  what  Byberry  is?  Oh,  you  
young  buck-­‐-­‐okay,  history  lesson,  where’s  your  pencil  and  paper?  Back  before  
Kennedy  signed  his  big  Community  Mental  Health  act  in  the  sixties,  we  didn’t  really  
know  what  to  do  with  these  people  with  these,  what,  these  brain  diseases.  We’d  

Psychotropic  Ultimatums  and  John  the  Baptist  
throw  them  all  into  one  of  the  big  state  hospitals,  strap  them  down,  contain  them.  
Jail  them,  sure.  Best  we  could  do,  without  even  touching  on  lobotomies  or  EST-­‐-­‐
lesson  for  another  day.  But  so  then  Kennedy  came  on  TV  and  signed  the  bill  that  
started  the  whole  Community  Mental  Health  Movement-­‐-­‐the  treatment  of  people  in  
the  community  as  opposed  to  the  big  state  hospitals.  And,  yeah,  so  Byberry  was  our  
biggie.  And  people  like  to  hold  that  up  as  this  great  humanitarian  victory,  by  the  
way-­‐-­‐and  sure,  that’s  fine,  in  lots  of  ways  it  was.  I  mean  there  are  some  ghost  stories  
about  Byberry,  you  should  Google  it  sometime.  But  what  I’m  telling  you  is  without  
Thorazine  it  never  would  have  happened.  Don’t  celebrate  John  Kennedy.  Celebrate  
the  advent  of  the  antipsychotic.  Another?”  
The  bartender  had  already  brought  us  another.    
“And  so  they  shut  down  Byberry  and  all  those  people  are  finally  free  to  go,  
where,  home?  What  home,  right?  I  mean  these  are  folks  whose  families  shipped  
them  off  thirty,  forty  years  ago.  Long  story  short,  they  became  the  problem  of  the  
shelters,  and  the  shelters  learned  to  lean  on  the  miracle  of  modern  medication.  Fast  
forward  and  here  we  are,  you  and  me,  gainfully  employed.”  We  touched  glasses,  I  
think  in  thanks.  VZ  had  been  doing  it  for  thirty  years  or  something.  
In  a  nutshell,  and  at  least  as  I  understand  it  from  those  talks  with  Van  Zijl,  it  
works  like  this:  schizophrenia  is  linked  to  some  overactive  synapses  firing  off  in  
your  brain,  and  your  classic  antipsychotic-­‐-­‐Thorazine  grandfather  to  them  all-­‐-­‐
quiets  down  that  firing.  Shuts  it  off.  Spend  ten  minutes  in  the  dayroom  if  you  want  to  
see  what  that  looks  like  in  a  person  who’s  been  on  the  stuff  for  long  enough,  but  you  
probably  have  the  idea  from  the  movies-­‐-­‐the  shuffle  of  the  feet,  the  involuntary  

Psychotropic  Ultimatums  and  John  the  Baptist  
pawing  of  the  mouth,  the  clouding  of  the  brain  so  that  it  becomes  impossible  to  
piece  thoughts  together  if,  say,  reading  was  something  you  used  to  like  to  do,  or  
simple  math.    
The  accepted  wisdom  being  that  a  zero  of  a  person  is  preferable  to  a  
negative.    
“I  heard  it  all  the  way  the  hell  from  down  the  hallway.  Just  a  WAP,  WAP.  
When  I  ran  down  and  saw  it  was  bol’s  head  making  that  sound.  And  that  window,  
Mr.  Patrick,  that  glass  ain’t  just  glass,  it’s  run  with  them  wires,  you  know?  So  with  
every  WAP,  WAP  a  few  more  squares  fell  out  from  their  wire  diamonds  or  whatever.  
Bryce  and  them  tried  to  pull  him  down  but  bol  shook  them  off  like  they  was  nothing  
at  all.  That  little  white  bol,  couldn’t  weigh  more  than  a  buck-­‐fifty,  I  don’t  know  
where  it  came  from.  WAP,  WAP,  like  a  hammer.  Truly,  I  never  seen  some  shit  like  
that  before.  I  didn’t  think  a  person’s  head  could  make  that  sound,  Mr.  Patrick.  WAP  
WAP  WAP  WAP  WAP  WAP  WAP.  I  think  I  caught  some,  what  do  you  call  it,  vicarious  
trauma.  Set  me  up  with  VZ?”  
I  got  a  half-­‐dozen  such  accounts  from  my  guys  in  there  that  next  morning.  
From  Miss  Bet  I  got  a  copy  of  the  police  report,  John’s  room  number  in  the  hospital,  
and  a  pat  on  the  shoulder.  She  wasn’t  any  type  of  way  about  it.  She  seemed  more  
just  tired  than  anything.    
It  would  be  another  two  months  before  I’d  get  John’s  story,  but  the  head  
nurse’s  was  this:  
“Your  friend  in  there’s  an  animal.  Sent  one  of  my  girls  to  the  ER.  Yeah,  well,  
believe  it,  hon.  Brought  him  in  late  last  night,  stitched  up  that  giant  head  of  his-­‐-­‐

Psychotropic  Ultimatums  and  John  the  Baptist  
sixty-­‐four  stitches,  think  it  was?  And  then  just  as  she  was  bringing  him  back  up-­‐-­‐real  
sweetheart,  Ashley  is,  by  the  way-­‐-­‐what’s  he  do  but  jump—jump.  Jump  off  the  bed  
and  get  his  hands  around  her  neck.  Oh  no  ain’t  the  half  of  it.  Threw  her  like  a  doll  
across  the  room,  started  bashing  his  own  head  against  the  floor.  Split  the  thing  right  
back  open.  She’s  going  to  be  fine,  thank  god.  What  a  mess,  though.  On  the  floor,  the  
walls-­‐-­‐here,  look,  Joan,  do  we  have  a  copy  of  the  police  report?  Got  his  friend  or  
something  here.  I  want  him  off  my  floor,  Joan.  I  don’t  care  anymore.  Off  my  floor.  
Who  are  you  to  him  again?”  
The  room  in  the  ICU  was  dimly  lit  and  crossed  with  shadows.  Tubes  poking  
out  from  his  arms,  from  between  his  legs,  mask  hooked  onto  his  mouth,  pumping  his  
chest  up  and  down  and  making  all  the  Darth  Vader  sounds,  the  steady  beep.  Head  
wrapped  in  white  so  I  couldn’t  see  anything  except  for  just  how  big  it  was.  I  couldn’t  
tell  if  that  was  the  swelling  or  the  gauze  or  just  his  forehead  looming  even  larger.  I  
never  thought  of  a  coma  being  something  you  could  do  to  someone,  and  sustain,  but  
they  kept  him  under  for  two  full  months-­‐-­‐the  time  it  took  the  courts  to  sort  out  what  
to  do  with  him.  
John’s  sentence  was  settled  while  he  was  still  under.  The  judge  kept  him  out  
of  jail  but  mandated  outpatient  treatment-­‐-­‐medication  nonnegotiable.  He  was  
assigned  a  PO  to  check  in  with  monthly-­‐-­‐Frank  Dragon.  You  can’t  make  a  name  like  
that  up.  Or  you  could,  but  unless  it  was  real  a  name  like  that  would  fall  flat.  Details  
take  on  a  different  kind  of  weight  when  they’re  real.  Things  that  otherwise  feel  
hokey.  The  scar  ran  right  down  the  middle  of  John’s  forehead.  It  was  painful  to  look  
at  and  know  that  it  wasn’t  the  product  of  some  success  of  a  brain  surgery,  the  way  

Psychotropic  Ultimatums  and  John  the  Baptist  
passers-­‐by  might  assume,  but  that  what  had  been  the  matter  with  John’s  head  was  
only  the  hospital  floor,  the  day-­‐room  window  several,  several  times.  A  voice  he  
decided  was  God,  if  decided  is  the  word  for  it.  Before  they  brought  him  out  of  that  
coma  they  gave  him  three  weeks’  worth  of  antipsychotics  and  mood  stabilizers  in  
the  drip  that  hung  to  his  side.  He  was  groggy  when  I  came  to  see  him,  but  he  
remembered  everything  and  was  wide  open  with  me.    
“So,  then,”  I  summarized,  after  he’d  explained  that  night  in  the  dayroom,  “it  
was  a  kind  of  punishment.”  
“Yes.”  
“For  what?”  
Pause.  “I  won’t  say.”  
“Sins,  though?”  
“We  all  sin.”  
“Okay.  But  then,  so  as  punishment,  God  told  you  to  put  your  head  through  
that  window?”  I  wanted  to  understand  him.  
“You  don’t  understand.  God  didn’t  tell  me  to  do  anything.  I  know  what  you’re  
going  to  write  down  in  that  book-­‐-­‐command  hallucinations-­‐-­‐but  he  didn’t  command  
anything.  He  did.  It  was  Him  all  along.”  
Another  pause,  mine.  “And  what  about  the  nurse?”  
“The  woman.  She  was  my  captor.”  Then  he  paused  again,  this  time  for  a  long  
time.  “Her  eyes  were  very  green.  I’m  sorry  that  I  did  that  to  her,  but,  Patrick—
Patrick.  Please.  You  have  to  tell  me,  what  did  they  put  in  me?”  
It  was  the  only  time  he  ever  said  my  name.  “There  are  a  few  things  in  there  

Psychotropic  Ultimatums  and  John  the  Baptist  
but  mostly  it’s  Seraquel.  I  can  show  you  if  you  want.  So  you  don’t  hear  Him  
anymore?”  
All  he  did  was  close  his  eyes.  
“It’s  not  jail,”  I  offered.  This  then  would  be  the  demon  John  wrestled  those  
last  lonely  months.  The  court-­‐mandated  medicated  state  and  the  question  of  which  
prison  was  worse.  
(Did  I  wrestle,  too?  I  did  not.  There  was  no  choice  left  for  me  to  wrestle  
with—I  would  keep  Van  Zijl  in  the  loop,  he  would  keep  the  supply  of  meds  coming,  
Miss  Bet  would  make  sure  they  were  administered.  Nonnegotiable,  judge’s  ruling.  I  
would  never  have  to  decide  another  thing  about  John,  and  I  would  avoid  the  topic  of  
God  altogether.)  
In  the  end  it  was  John’s  faith  that  delivered  him  from  this  place.    
“Which  John  are  you?”  I  asked  him  that  last  day.  Three  or  so  months  had  
passed  since  they  let  him  go  from  the  hospital,  and  he  wasn’t  able  to  read  the  Bible  
anymore.  Not  like  he  used  to-­‐-­‐he  couldn’t  hold  more  than  a  sentence  or  two  in  his  
head  at  a  time,  and  most  of  that  time  he  spent  in  bed,  a  courtesy  extended  to  only  a  
handful.  I  guess  I’ll  add  that  Miss  Bet  took  him  back  without  a  quip,  and  was  
especially  considerate  toward  him.  She  made  sure  the  staff  sought  him  out  every  
morning  and  nighttime  and  administered  his  medications  exactly.  “I  just  pray  for  
that  man,”  she  told  me  once,  during  that  time.  The  spiderweb  he’d  put  in  the  
dayroom  window  was  still  there.  
“Which  John  am  I?”  
We  were  out  in  the  lot  behind  the  shelter.  The  line  of  the  scar  was  prominent  

Psychotropic  Ultimatums  and  John  the  Baptist  
on  his  forehead,  the  pink  dots  on  either  side  glistened  in  the  sun,  which  was  right  on  
top  of  us.  The  dots  were  from  the  staples  that  held  his  head  together,  and  the  whole  
story  of  it  there  on  his  forehead  made  him  look  like  something  put  together,  man-­‐
made.  Frankenstein.  The  hair  and  the  beard  that  the  hospital  shaved  had  grown  
back  in,  giving  him  his  old,  wild  look.  
“Baptist  or  Evangelist?  John’s  my  confirmation  name,  you  know.”  Who  knows  
why  I  breached  this  conversation  now.  Maybe  I  could  tell  he  was  on  his  way  out.  
“And  actually  I  always  forget  which  John  I  chose,  Baptist  or  Evangelist.  But  
really-­‐-­‐and  I  never  told  anyone  this  before-­‐-­‐I  chose  the  name  because  of  John  
Diangelo.  This  kid  in  middle  school  I’d  wanted  to  be  in  some  middle-­‐school  way.  It’s  
stupid  now,  the  way  I’d  hold  up  every  little  thing  about  someone  like  that.  Like  it  
was  his  name,  John,  that  people  liked.  I  don’t  know.  I  was  only  twelve  I  guess.  I  think  
I  still  do  that,  though—have  a  hard  time  separating  the  part  from  the  whole.  It’s  
probably  why  I  started  doing  social  work  in  the  first  place.”  
John  smiled  at  that,  and  he  wiped  the  sweat  from  his  eyes.  It  was  ninety-­‐
seven  outside,  the  city  had  called  a  Code  Red,  but  he  was  going  to  go  out  there  
anyway.  And  I  feel  like  a  part  of  me  knew  he  was  going,  even  then,  but  maybe  that’s  
just  a  trick  of  memory.  I  have  a  hard  time  separating  the  part  from  the  whole.  He  did  
thank  me  before  leaving.    
“What  for?”  
“It  was  never  about  me,  you  know.  All  of  this—it  was  all  His,  all  along.”    
John  the  Baptist,  then.  
Then  he  left  and  I  never  called  his  PO  like  I  was  supposed  to.  The  warrant  

Psychotropic  Ultimatums  and  John  the  Baptist  
was  issued  a  few  months  later  when  John  failed  to  report,  and  I  check  the  system  
now  and  then  for  a  sign  of  him,  but  nothing  so  far.  Every  time  I  get  a  call  from  
probation,  I  have  this  flash  of  dread  that  it’s  Dragon,  confirming  some  new  violence  
committed.  So  far  it’s  always  some  other  PO,  some  other  client,  some  new  concern.    
Almost  a  hundred  clients  later  and  I  still  think  about  John  and  that  faith  he  
kept.  About  whether  him  leaving  out  that  day  was  a  test  he  passed  or  failed.  What  if  
the  voice  never  came  back?  What  if  he’s  still  out  there  in  that  wilderness  waiting?  
Locusts  and  honey,  I  still  do  double-­‐takes  in  the  shelter.  
And  what  about  me.  Did  I  pass  the  test?  Say  that  my  memory  is  correct—that  
a  part  of  me  knew  that  last  day  that  he  was  going  to  leave.  Just  hypothetically,  say  
that  I  had  some  choice  in  him  leaving,  that  when  he  said  goodbye  to  me  that  last  day,  
when  he  walked  his  crazy  head  of  hair  off  up  the  street,  that  I  knew  he  meant  it  for  
good.  That  when  he  said  goodbye  he  said  my  name  again—Goodbye,  Patrick.  And  if  I  
caught  the  finality  in  that,  and  let  it  go?  Didn’t  I  want  a  way  out  for  John,  a  kind  of  
win?  Or  was  it  a  win  for  me.  Out  of  sight,  out  of  mind—the  same  bargain  everyone  
else  in  the  world  in  world  is  able  to  strike  every  time  they  look  right  past  him  on  the  
street,  filthy  and  raving,  insane,  alone  in  a  city  of  millions,  the  part  from  the  whole  at  
last.  
  


