Pete  took  the  chair  at  the  head  of  the  table.    It  was  the  last  remaining  seat,  the  
one  with  wide,  gaping  arms  built  for  a  man  much  broader  than  himself.    As  he  did  so  
his  Aunt  Adeline  flinched—this  was  where  his  late  Uncle  Arthur  had  always  sat—
and  so  Pete  shifted  his  chair  a  bit,  half  a  foot  to  the  right,  so  that  he  wasn’t  quite  at  
the  head  of  the  long  oval  table  but  rather  close  to  his  sister  Martha’s  husband,  Steve.    
Immediately,  he  regretted  this  decision.    Steve  happened  to  be  left-­‐handed.    They  
brushed  forearms  as  they  each  buttered  their  dinner  rolls.  
  

For  as  long  as  he  could  remember,  the  Collins  and  the  Leonards  had  gathered  

at  Aunt  Adeline  and  Uncle  Arthur’s  for  Thanksgiving.    Aunt  Adeline  was  a  Leonard,  
of  Pete’s  mother’s  side  of  the  family,  a  self-­‐proclaimed  matriarch  and  definitely  the  
best  cook  (though  that  didn’t  say  much,  for  she  was  merely  the  one  that  chose  to  
cook  with  the  most  wine).    Still,  she’d  like  to  think  that  her  Thanksgiving  meals  were  
often  celebrated,  even  cherished,  save  for  the  year  when  Pete’s  mother  Flora  spilled  
the  tub  of  gravy  on  her  way  from  the  kitchen  to  the  dining  room.    They  never  
mentioned  that  year.    Pete  thought  it  may  have  been  1993,  the  year  he  went  off  to  
college  at  Michigan  State.    It  was  also  the  year  that  his  father  passed.    
  

For  Pete,  Thanksgiving  had  always  been  a  puzzling  day.    A  day  when  he  had  

to  put  his  blurred  vision  of  family  into  focus,  if  not  to  almost  immediately  defocus  
with  the  help  of  alcohol  and  heaps  of  food  that  left  the  lower  portion  of  his  body  
numb.    In  the  years  before  he  was  of  age,  he  achieved  this  defocus  through  childish  
ways,  playing  silly  games  with  the  table  settings  and  sneaking  dusty  malt  balls  from  
Aunt  Adeline’s  secret  stash  before  dinner.    Anything  to  get  his  mind  off  conversation.    
  
Anything  to  make  him  feel  as  though  he  was  somewhere  else,  at  some  other  party  
with  some  other  name.    It  wasn’t  that  Pete  didn’t  enjoy  his  family,  but  that  he  simply  
didn’t  know  how  to  interact.    From  an  early  age,  he  thought  of  them  as  just  people.    
He  didn’t  understand  blood.    He  didn’t  understand  lineage.    In  school,  he  approached  
family  tree  exercises  as  if  they  were  elaborate  puzzles,  and  lessons  in  the  birds  and  
the  bees  made  him  feel  as  though  his  connection  to  his  parents  was  all  that  much  
more  microscopic.    He  ceased  calling  his  mother  mom  at  age  nine.  
  

Pete  looked  to  his  mother,  to  the  bony,  large  knuckles  that  clung  to  her  glass.    

Perhaps  his  hands  looked  like  hers,  perhaps  they  did  not.    The  glint  of  her  wedding  
band  caught  his  attention.    She  still  wore  it,  though  her  husband  had  been  dead  for  
nearly  twenty  years.    The  stone  was  small,  and  Pete  wouldn’t  have  even  noticed  it  if  
it  weren’t  for  the  low  sun  that  came  through  the  window  at  the  early  dinner  hour,  
pouring  through  their  wine  glasses  and  sending  ruby  reflections  onto  the  thick,  
white  table  cloth.      
  

It  was  time  for  dinner.    Aunt  Adeline  cleared  her  throat.    She  tapped  her  glass.    

Pete  stopped  buttering  his  roll  and  awaited  the  customary  grace  while  Steve  
continued  to  stab  at  the  butter  dish  with  his  fat,  dull  knife.    Pete  made  a  mental  note  
to  address  this  with  Martha—though  he  wasn’t  quite  sure  which  issue  was  more  
pressing:  Steve’s  impoliteness,  or  his  excessive  consumption  of  butter.    Heart  
disease  apparently  ran  in  the  family,  at  least  in  theirs.  
“Ahem,”  said  Aunt  Adeline.    “I’d  like  to  start  with  some  good  news  and  some  
bad  news.”  
Not  grace,  Pete  thought.  
“Well,  actually  some  might  rather  call  it  bittersweet  news,  for  it’s  actually  just  
one  bit  of  news,  or  whatchamackallit.”  
Aunt  Adeline  always  said  watchamackallit,  Pete  thought.  
“You  see,  I’ve  just  found  out  that  I’ve  beat  the  cancer.    Well,  actually,  it  was  a  
false  positive,  so  I  didn’t—“  
“Oh  that’s  wonderful!”  Martha  said.    She  wore  her  relieved  look,  the  one  
where  she  let  out  a  sweated  breath.    It  was  the  same  face  Martha  made  after  she  
used  the  bathroom.      
“Well,  yes,  I  suppose.”  
“So  what’s  the  bad  news?”  Steve  said,  pushing  a  wad  of  butter  and  

breadcrumbs  to  the  side  of  his  cheek  so  that  he  could  talk  with  his  mouth  agape.    
Perhaps  he’d  eaten  so  much  saturated  fat  that  it  was  already  clogging  up  his  ears.  
  

“Well,  that’s  just  it,”  Aunt  Adeline  said.    “That  is  the  bad  news.    Now,  you  see,  

I’m  just  that  much  further  from  being  back  with  Art.    It’s  bad  news,  I  tell  you.    I  
would  have  let  that  cancer  eat  me  alive,  as  fast  as  it  could,  and  then—“  
“I’m  so  sorry,”  Steve  said.  
“I’m  so  sorry,”  Martha  said.  
“I’m  so  sorry,”  Flora  said.  
Pete  felt  thirsty.  
“To  Aunt  Adeline’s  health,  may  it  be—whichever  way  you  wish  it  sways,”  
Pete  raised  his  glass.    He  took  a  gulp  of  red  wine  and  wondered  if  his  throat  was  
already  stained  from  the  two  glasses  he’d  had  before  dinner.    The  other  glasses  rose,  
met  lips.  
Pete  eyed  the  meal  on  the  table.    There  were  all  the  usual  suspects:  the  string  
beans,  canned  cranberry  that  was  still  much  in  the  shape  of  the  can,  corn  muffins  
and  gravy,  glazed  carrots  and  turnips,  brussels  sprouts  with  too  much  salt,  and  of  
course  the  mashed  potatoes—though  he  certainly  didn’t  think  they  qualified  as  
“mashed”  (Aunt  Adeline  wasn’t  much  of  a  detailist).    It  was  all  there,  save  for  the  
one,  the  emblematic  dish:  the  bird.    Pete’s  mother  had  explained  on  the  drive  over  
that  it  had  always  been  Uncle  Arthur’s  responsibility  to  pick,  roast,  and  carve  the  
turkey,  and,  therefore,  it  was  the  honorable  thing  to  exclude  this  piece  of  the  meal  
this  year.    Besides,  she’d  said,  it’s  not  as  if  one  of  them  quite  knew  how  to  roast  a  
turkey.    Pete  hadn’t  considered  the  turkey  a  “piece”  of  the  meal,  but  rather  the  meal  
in  it  of  itself,  and  so  he’d  wondered  momentarily  where  he’d  get  his  protein  from,  
and  made  a  mental  note  to  spend  considerable  time  with  the  cheese  platter  during  
cocktail  hour.  
  

Now  Pete  thought  he  might  have  overdone  it  on  the  toasted  brie.  

  

“Please  pass  the  potatoes,”  a  voice  said.    It  was  Elinor.    Elinor  sat  at  the  edge  

of  the  table,  in  the  seat  she  always  took.    She  had  her  hand  pressed  forward  in  a  
gesture  he  figured  was  supposed  to  signal  her  desire  for  those  starchy  clumps  of  
unmashed  potatoes,  though  he  wasn’t  quite  sure  that  hand  was  going  to  actually  be  
useful  in  obtaining  them.    The  potatoes  were  in  front  of  Pete,  but  Pete  made  no  move  
to  pass  them;  Steve  could  pass  the  potatoes.    Instead,  Pete  fixated  on  Elinor.    Elinor  
had  this  way  in  which  she  acted  as  though  she  was  alone,  but  that  she  was  also  being  
watched.    Each  gesture  was  deliberate,  though  not  self-­‐conscious.    It  was  as  if  she  
was  the  star  in  her  own  film.    Elinor  was  beautiful.    Pete  took  to  watching  her  a  lot,  

  

4  

Thanksgiving  Affair  
  
and  he  often  imagined  her  simple  lick  of  the  lips,  twist  of  her  hair—the  things  she  
did  as  though  they  were  written  for  her,  for  her  as  the  character  of  Elinor.    He  often  
felt  uncomfortable  with  the  way  he  watched  her  at  these  gatherings,  and  then  the  
way  he  later  thought  about  her.    Yes,  Elinor  was  beautiful.    Elinor  was  his  cousin.  
  

Martha  coughed.    Pete  blinked.    Steve  passed  the  potatoes.      

  

“Thank  you,”  Elinor  said.    “Here  you  go,  dear,”  Elinor  said.  

  

Pete  looked  to  ‘dear’:  a  woman  named  Tibby,  Elinor’s  friend.    Tibby  had  a  

long  nose  and  long  fingers.    Elinor  had  never  brought  a  friend  before.    In  fact,  for  as  
long  as  Pete  remembered,  friends  were  not  allowed  at  the  Leonard  Family  
Thanksgiving.    Only  family  and  significant  others,  we’re  not  a  soup  kitchen!  Uncle  
Arthur  had  always  said.    Perhaps  the  rules  had  changed.  
  

Elinor  spooned  a  generous  helping  of  unmashed  potatoes  onto  Tibby’s  plate.  

Tibby  frowned  (she  must  have  noticed  their  lack  of  mash)  and  Pete  suddenly  felt  
protective  of  Aunt  Adeline’s  Famous  Mashed  Potatoes.     
  

“Enough,  babe,”  Tibby  said.    She  put  her  hand  on  Elinor’s  hand.    Pete  felt  a  

pang  of  jealousy  and  quickly  took  another  gulp  of  wine.    It  dissipated.    
  

“Tibby’s  a  vegetarian,”  Elinor  said.    

  

“I  don’t  miss  the  turkey,”  Tibby  said.  

  

“Ooh,”  Flora  said.  
“Isn’t  that  lovely?”  Martha  said.  
“Where  do  you  get  your  protein?”  Pete  said.  
Elinor  glared  at  Pete.  

  

5  

Thanksgiving  Affair  
  
“That’s  right,  nuts  and  legumes  and  things,”  Pete  said,  answering  his  own  
question.    Pete  looked  at  Elinor.    Elinor  smiled  at  Tibby.  Elinor  and  Tibby’s  chairs  
seemed  awfully  close.    Aunt  Adeline  must  have  had  to  seat  them  close  together,  in  
order  to  accommodate  an  extra  guest.  
“Yes,  nuts  and  legumes.    In  fact,  she’s  actually  inspired  me  to  become  a  
vegetarian  myself,  though  I’ve  only  been  at  it  for—what?”  
“Eighteen  days.”  
“Yes,  eighteen  days.”  Elinor  said.    
“It’s  sweet,  really,”  Tibby  said,  “She  says  she’s  doing  it  for  the  animals,  but  I  
really  know  she’s  doing  it  for  me,”  Tibby  smiled.    Pete  thought  her  smile  was  
crooked.    He  remembered  Elinor  sucking  on  a  turkey  leg  just  last  year.    She  seemed  
to  rather  have  enjoyed  it.    Elinor  must  really  be  devoted  to  this  friendship,  he  
thought.    Yes,  Elinor  would  be  like  that,  a  good  friend.  
“So,  Tibby,  what  brings  you  here?”  Pete  asked.  
“What  brings  me  here?”  Tibby  said.    “Elinor  brings  me  here.”    
Pete  thought  this  an  odd  answer.    He  didn’t  much  appreciate  when  others  
were  coy  with  him,  especially  girls  he  didn’t  know,  girls  with  crooked  smiles.    Of  
course  Elinor  had  brought  her  there;  they  had  taken  one  car;  Aunt  Adeline  only  had  
a  three  car  driveway.    Pete  took  yet  another  sip  of  wine,  emptying  his  glass.    He  let  
the  slight  spice  of  it  calm  him  down.    He  adjusted  his  thoughts.    There  is  no  need  to  
get  worked  up,  he  told  himself.    Perhaps  Tibby  had  no  family,  he  thought.    Perhaps  
Elinor  was  doing  her  a  favor.    Perhaps  she  was  extending  her  kindness.    Yes,  that  
was  so  like  Elinor,  to  be  kind.    Kind  Elinor,  he  thought.    Sweet  Elinor.  

  

6  

Thanksgiving  Affair  
  
  

“This  one’s  sweet,”  a  voice  said.    Pete  jolted,  realizing  he  had  been  staring  at  

his  empty,  purple  stained  glass.    He  looked  up.    Had  he  somehow  spoken  his  
thoughts  aloud?  “Well,  sweeter  than  the  cabernet,”  the  voice  continued.    It  was  
Tibby.    She  began  to  poor  a  thick,  syrupy  wine  into  his  glass.    On  instinct,  Pete  
grabbed  at  it,  pulling  the  glass  away  mid-­‐pour,  so  that  a  stream  of  purple  spilled  
onto  Aunt  Adeline’s  fine  linen  tablecloth,  splashing  into  the  mashed  potatoes.  
  

“Pete!”  Elinor  said.    “What  are  you  doing?    Have  you  no  manners?”    

  

“I’m  so  sorry,”  Tibby  said.    “I’m  so  sorry.”    

  

“Jesus!”  Martha  said.  

  

“My  potatoes!”  Aunt  Adeline  said.  

  

“Dude,”  Steve  said.    Steve  had  a  splash  of  wine  on  his  dominant  left  hand.  

  

“What  did  I  tell  you  about  saying  that?”  Martha  said.    Martha  hated  slang.  

  

Pete  looked  at  the  sickly  bowl  of  winey  potatoes.    He  had  never  heard  Elinor  

raise  her  voice  before.  
  

“I…she…it  wasn’t  a  clean  glass,”  he  said.    “It’s  not  right  to  mix.”  

  

“Oh  for  Chrissake,”  Elinor  said.    “Since  when  are  you  such  a  snob?”  Elinor  

turned  to  Tibby.    “I’m  sorry,  babe.”  She  said.    She  put  her  hands  on  Tibby’s  
shoulders.    “He’s  being  an  ass.    I  told  you,  he  gets  like  this.”    
  

Pete  stared  blankly  at  the  two  girls.      

  

“Excuse  me,”  Pete  said.    He  excused  himself.      

  

Pete  took  his  time  making  his  way  down  the  hall,  past  the  framed  newspaper  

clippings  and  dusty  glass  figurines  that  lined  the  walls.    Uncle  Arthur  had  liked  to  
collect  articles  on  his  favorite  sports  matches.    Aunt  Adeline  disliked  photographs.    

  

7  

Thanksgiving  Affair  
  
The  glass  figurines  were  mostly  birds,  frozen  in  flight.    At  the  end  of  the  hall  there  
was  a  coyote,  nose  pointing  to  the  front  door.    Once,  when  Pete  was  a  child,  he  took  a  
chip  out  of  the  coyote’s  tail  and  Aunt  Adeline  had  scolded  him  with  her  cold  hands.  
  

In  the  washroom,  Pete  held  his  wobbly  dick  in  his  hands  for  what  seemed  like  

hours,  trying  to  piss.    He  thought  of  the  incident  at  the  table.    Of  Elinor’s  face,  her  
beautiful  face  breaking  with  the  splash  of  wine  as  Pete  absently  shamed  Tibby.    His  
dick  grew  a  little  hard  as  he  thought  of  that  face,  those  strands  of  freckles  dancing  on  
her  cheeks  and  her  licking  lips.    He  began  to  stroke  himself,  for  a  moment,  imagining  
that  face  in  front  of  his,  until  he  was  startled  by  the  sound  of  merrymaking  coming  
from  the  dining  room.    Pete  felt  ashamed,  drawing  himself  back  into  the  moment.    It  
occurred  to  him  that  he  may  be  a  bit  transparent,  that  his  feelings  toward  Elinor  
weren’t  as  private  as  he  thought  they  might  be.    He  washed  his  hands,  bladder  still  
full,  resolving  to  make  amends.  
  

When  Pete  returned  to  the  table  he  had  considerably  calmed,  so  much  so  that  

he  felt  compelled  to  make  another  toast.  
  

“I’ve  been  thinking,”  Pete  said,  “And  I’d  like  to  make  a  toast.”  Pete  reached  for  

the  stem  of  his  glass,  only  to  realize  that  it  was  sticky  with  spilt  wine.    He  took  the  
moment  to  survey  the  table:  most  everyone’s  plates  were  cleaned  or  at  rest,  the  
gravy  and  glazes  congealed  so  that  whatever  was  left  was  no  longer  edible.    Steve  
held  another  roll,  swathed  in  butter.    Tibby  picked  at  Elinor’s  plate.  Martha  sat,  close  
to  comatose,  and  Flora  and  Aunt  Adeline  anxiously  held  their  glasses  high,  waiting.  
  

“I’m  terribly  sorry  for  my  behavior  before,  you  see.    I  think  I  was  just  thrown  

off  by  seeing  a  new  face,”  Pete  cleared  his  throat.  “So  I’d  like  to  toast  Elinor.    You  

  

8  

Thanksgiving  Affair  
  
seem  happy  as  ever.    Thank  you  for  sharing  your  friend  with  us.    We  welcome  
anyone  you  bring  to  our  table  with  love.”  
  

“Oh  that  was  lovely!”  Flora  said.  

  

“To  Elinor’s  happiness!”  Steve  said.  

  

“To  love!”  Martha  said.  

  

“To  Elinor  and  Tibby!”  Aunt  Adeline  said.  

  

“To  us,  dear,”  Elinor  said.    She  tipped  her  glass  to  Tibby.  

  

Pete  hadn’t  expected  such  a  resounding  response,  but  he  felt  relieved  that  the  

attention  was  off  of  him.    He  wasn’t  quite  sure  why  the  toast  had  shifted  from  Elinor,  
to  Elinor  and  Tibby—he  had  purposefully  chosen  his  words  wisely,  for  he  still  didn’t  
much  enjoy  Tibby,  and  didn’t  necessarily  want  to  directly  include  her.    Regardless,  
he  felt  it  went  over  fairly  well.    He  thought  that  in  the  grand  scheme  of  things,  this  
could  make  up  for  his  private  moment  in  the  washroom.    Surely  he  could  be  forgiven  
for  that.  
  

  

  

  

  

Later,  after  the  pies  had  been  sliced  and  then  sufficiently  picked  and  prodded,  

Pete  found  himself  alone  in  the  kitchen,  washing  up.    He  was  forearms  deep  in  a  
basin  of  greasy  sink  water,  fishing  for  a  spoon  that  had  slipped  down  the  disposal,  
when  Elinor  entered  through  the  swinging  door.  
  

“You  know,  it’s  cool  if  you’re  not  cool  with  it,”  she  said.    She  folded  her  arms  

beneath  her  breasts.    Pete  tried  to  focus  his  fingers  on  the  spoon.  
  

  

“Cool  with  what?”  Pete  said.      
9  

Thanksgiving  Affair  
  
  

“You  know,  Tibby,”  Elinor  said.  
“I  told  you,  the  more  the  merrier.    It  was  nice  to  have  Tibby.    It  took  the  focus  

off  Uncle  Art’s—”  
  

Elinor  snorted.    She  took  a  step  closer  to  Pete.    “That’s  not  what  I  mean,”  she  

said.    “God,  sometimes  it’s  so—“  
  

“So  what?”  Pete  said.    He  watched  Elinor  tighten  her  grip  on  her  arms,  

pushing  up  her  breasts.      
  

“Babe,”  a  voice  said  from  the  door.    It  was  Tibby.    She  held  a  deep  red  wine  

glass,  which  she  had  filled  three-­‐quarters  full  with  white  wine.    Pete  looked  to  the  
drying  rack  where  the  clusters  of  dishes  dripped.    He  counted  the  glasses.  He  was  
certain  he  had  cleaned  them  all.      
  

“Where  did  you  get  that  glass?”  he  asked.    “Did  you  go  into  the  pantry?”    His  

fingers  were  still  wedged  in  the  mouth  of  the  disposal.  
  

“Babe.”  Tibby  said  again.    She  walked  to  Elinor,  placing  her  long  hands  on  her  

shoulder.    “Give  it  a  rest  with  him,  huh?”    She  took  a  deep  swig  of  her  wine.    “Why  
does  it  even  matter  what  he  thinks?”  
  

“Because,”  Elinor  said.    

  

“Where  did  you  get  that?”  Pete  said  again.  

  

“Because,  why?”  Tibby  said  into  Elinor’s  ear.    “I  thought  you  said  he  didn’t  

really  get  these  sorts  of  things.”  
  

“Because  he’s  my  cousin,”  Elinor  said,  turning  to  Tibby.    Their  noses  were  

almost  touching.      

  

10  

Thanksgiving  Affair  
  
  

“Where  did  that  glass  come  from,  Tibby?    I  was  supposed  to  have  cleaned  

them  all.”    Pete  said.    He  wrenched  his  arm  from  the  sink.    Greasy  suds  slid  down  his  
wrist.  
  

“Pete,  stop,”  Elinor  said.      

  

“But  it’s  not  even  for  white  wine!”  Pete  said.  

  

“Pete.    She’s  a  guest.”  

  

“I  know  she’s  a  guest  which  is  why  she  shouldn’t  be  helping  herself  to—“  

  

“Pete!”  Elinor  said.    Her  arms  flew  up,  breasts  bobbing.  “Just  stop  it,  okay?    

Not  everything  has  to  be  so  by  the  book.”    Elinor  turned  toward  Tibby.    She  quickly  
re-­‐crossed  her  arms.    “I’m  sorry,  Tib,”  she  said,  softer.  
  

“It’s  fine,”  Tibby  said.  “I  get  it.    He’s  not…”  She  rubbed  Elinor’s  back.    “It’s  

fine,”  she  said  again.  Then,  to  Pete,  “Your  mother  gave  it  to  me.    You  want  a  sip?”    She  
held  the  glass  before  his  lips,  so  close  that  he  could  see  his  breath  hit  the  lipsticked  
rim.      
  

“No,  thank  you.”  Pete  said.    He  watched  his  breath  fog  the  glass  and  recoil  

twice  before  he  backed  away.  
  

“Alright  then,”  Tibby  said.    She  held  the  glass  forward  in  a  silent  cheers  

before  she  brought  it  back  to  her  lips.    Elinor  sighed,  relaxed  her  grip.  
  

The  kitchen  was  quiet,  save  for  the  hum  of  the  fridge.    Pete  listened,  began  to  

hum,  too,  as  Tibby  sipped  from  her  wine.    The  buzz  on  his  lips  soothed  him.  
  

“Dude,”  a  voice  said.    It  was  Steve  at  the  door.    “Adeline  said  it’s  time  to  wrap  

up.”  

  

11  

Thanksgiving  Affair  
  
  

Elinor  released  her  arms  from  beneath  her  breasts  and  they  fell  a  little,  

unsupported  by  a  bra  beneath  her  turtleneck.    She  put  her  hand  on  Pete’s  shoulder.    
“Tibby,”  Elinor  said,  though  she  looked  Pete  square  in  the  eyes.    “Why  don’t  you  give  
Pete  your  glass  to  clean  so  he  can  finish  up,  alright?”  she  said.      
  

Tibby  smiled,  crooked.      

  

“Of  course,”  she  said.  

  

  “I’m  still  hungry,”  Steve  said,  stuffing  his  hands  in  his  sagging  coat  pockets.  

“Starved  without  the  meat,  you  know?  Gonna  hit  Popeye’s  on  the  way  home.”  
  

“Yeah,”  Pete  said.  

  

“You  too?”  Steve  said.  

  

“No,  I  had  a  lot  of  cheese,”  Pete  said.  

  

“Oh,”  Steve  said.    “Well,  Martha’s  already  in  the  car.    I’d  shake  your  hand,  

but…”  Steve  looked  at  Pete’s  dangling  hand,  soap  dripping  from  the  tips  of  his  
fingers  onto  the  floor.    “Seeya,”  he  said.  
  

Pete  watched  the  soap  drip  onto  the  checkered  tiles  of  the  kitchen  floor.    

Many  of  them  were  chipped.    He  and  Elinor  had  played  hopscotch  here  each  
Tuesday  for  hours  after  school  before  his  mother  collected  him  for  dinner.    She  had  
called  it  “her  afternoon,”  and  Pete  remembered  his  mother  and  father  sometimes  
arguing  over  whether  they  could  afford  her  such  luxuries,  “atop  all  else.”    They  
always  spoke  in  code.    Later  Pete  discovered  that  afternoon  was  reserved  for  his  
mother’s  weekly  sessions  with  Dr.  Lambert.  The  same  Dr.  Lambert  he  saw  each  
Wednesday  and  Friday  for  his  routine  therapies  and  exercises.    The  hopscotch  had  
soothed  him,  given  him  a  methodical  rhythm  he  could  feel,  beat  by  beat.    With  Elinor  

  

12  

Thanksgiving  Affair  
  
beating  next  to  him,  their  feet  thudding  to  the  same  hopscotch  routine,  he  had  felt  he  
could  control  his  connections  to  the  outside  world.    It  had  been  just  the  two  of  them,  
bouncing  along  parallel  checked  strips  of  black  and  white.    Then  Elinor  began  to  
grow  breasts  and  didn’t  feel  so  much  like  hopping  anymore.  
  

Pete  looked  up  to  Tibby  holding  forth  her  large,  empty  glass.  

  

“Make  it  sparkle,  hon,”  she  said.    Pete  took  the  bowl  of  the  wine  glass  with  his  

clean  hand  and  Tibby  headed  for  the  door,  her  long  fingers  trailing  behind  her.  
  

“Well,  then.”  Elinor  said,  “Goodbye.    I’ll  see  you…soon.”  She  smoothed  her  

sweater.    Pete  reached  his  hand  back  into  the  sinkwater.    “We’ve  decided  to  go  to  
Tibby’s  for  Christmas.    Her  mother’s  a  hippie.    We’ll  share  a  bedroom  there.”    
  

“I’m  not  sure  what  you—“  Pete  began,  but  Elinor  had  already  started  for  the  

door.  
  

“Goodbye,  Pete,”  she  said.    “And  Happy  Thanksgiving.”  She  gave  Pete  a  

saccharine  smile.    Pete  couldn’t  help  to  notice  that  it  was  crooked,  too,  much  like  
Tibby’s.    Had  Elinor  always  had  a  crooked  smile?  Surely  he  would  have  noticed  
before.    Then  it  occurred  to  Pete  that  perhaps  he’d  never  really  seen  Elinor  smile.  
  

“Goodbye,  Elinor,”  Pete  said,  but,  with  one  hand  in  the  sink  and  the  other  

gripping  Tibby’s  glass,  he  did  not  wave.      
  
  

Pete  watched  from  the  kitchen  window  as  Elinor  and  Tibby  loped  through  

the  front  lawn  to  the  driveway,  their  festive  long  skirts  brushing  through  the  grass,  
heads  held  close  as  they  watched  the  ground  for  small  stones  or  roots  they  might  
trip  upon.    In  the  dark  it  appeared  as  though  their  two  figures  were  one  amorphous  

  

13  

Thanksgiving  Affair  
  
blob,  moving  singularly  toward  their  car,  toward  home.    Pete  wondered  what  Elinor  
had  meant  by  their  exchange  in  the  kitchen,  and  felt  self-­‐conscious  about  her  
accusations,  whatever  they  were.    He  continued  to  dig  for  the  spoon  in  the  drain.    
The  more  he  thought  about  it,  the  more  the  two  girls  puzzled  him.    They  seemed  
more  alike  than  different,  more  one  than  two.    He  dug  his  hands  deeper  into  the  
drain,  the  spoon  slipping,  and  watched  as  Elinor  and  Tibby  reached  the  edge  of  the  
grass.    Their  shadows,  long  and  dark,  stretched  over  the  lawn,  overlapping,  
interlocking,  and  Pete  thought  he  saw  the  girls’  hands  linger  together  in  the  
streetlight  before  they  each  climbed  into  the  car.    He  pulled  the  spoon  from  the  
drain,  arms  covered  in  grease.  

  

14  


