I’M ALREADY IN LOVE WITH YOU. This is something I need you
to understand, right away. Because eventually I’m going to
need you to love me back. This isn’t to say that I’m a
needy person, I’m not. I don’t expect the same from you,
not initially. I’m simply a creature of compulsive loving,
so I feel that it’s only fair to you that you know that
before you keep reading.
I wish I had a quote in mind to place here, but I don’t.
One that would, at the same time, be a summation and
introduction into what I’m trying to explain to you. But I
don’t want this to feel like an essay. Maybe that D.F.W.
quote where he says that every love story is also a ghost
story. This can’t be in any way braggy, nor can it be
apologetic. Maybe later I’ll come back and fix this
paragraph.
I have a tendency to document things. This is more of a
habit of mine, it’s not compulsory, although I have no
desire to stop it. The pictures, the camera around my
neck, the constant creation of new collages, which I print
out at Kinko’s when I can’t sleep, and then hand cut and
paste until I’m too tired to crack my knuckles, my journal,
my online journal, my blog, interspersed social media
outlets, I even have a book of pie charts.
I work for a feminist website.
yet.


They hired me because a friend of mine send them in a story
I wrote about an old man who worked at a chair museum, and
who’s job it was to keep people from sitting in certain
chairs. He worried near to the point of devastation that
he would lose his job, were the museum to invest in signs.
I think they thought it was commentary.
I suppose I consider myself to be an aesthetically
stimulated person. This isn’t to say that I’m superficial,
not all the time. I am not beautiful, anyway.
When you do see me for the first time, please don’t think
of me as something I’m not. I am not a haircut, although I
know how short it is, and that it isn’t everyone’s thing.
I don’t think it’s my thing, not really. The kind of
haircut all the bra-burners get right as they’re accepted

into their graduate programs. When they shrug off old
friendships and relationships, and start on their quarterlife journey mostly involving working as a tour guide for
their art institute. Short, undignified, unobjectifying,
haircut, combed meticulously with all manner of assumption,
intuition, and magnanimity. A haircut that seems to say,
“please don’t judge me first as a lesbian, but as a human
being.” I promise to you, I am not a lesbian.
I disregard the word ‘slut.’ My hope is that the
deprivation of the word’s meaning is one of the few
unearthed spoils of the sexual revolution I don’t believe
really ever came. I have been with eleven men in my life—
vaginally. I don’t think that it, as a number, is worthy
of conversation, it’s just one of those things you share.
And like I said, I am not beautiful. Does that make me
seem somehow grateful? Because that isn’t it.
I’m worried that I might already be becoming dependant on
your support and your guidance. I know the way that
sounds, but I want us to be honest with one another. I
can’t hold things in. I explode.
Okay.
So if we’ve decided to be honest with one another, then
there is something much more important that I must tell you
before we can go on. It can be a bit hard to take, so I’ll
try to explain it with as much detail as possible.
I’m sick. And it’s very new, something that has just
developed over the last year or so. There are a team of
doctors trying to figure out exactly what is happening to
me, but what they do know is that it’s cyclical. It’s
probably in my brain, something to do with my hormone
center—this is all speculation—so there’s bound to be some
form of stigma attached to it. My mother had it, only not
as bad as me, then came menopause, and poof.
It isn’t terminal.
terminal.

Not in that sense.


Let me explain. And try to understand that I am not
unaware of how ridiculous this may all sound.
For one full week out of the month, I die, and an
imposturous version of myself carries on with my daily
life. Nobody knows but me. Me and the doctors, and

mother. But rest assured that for these seven days out of
the month, I am completely, and medically dead.
At first, they thought that it was some heretofore unfound
complication of my menstrual cycle. They theorized that it
was a psychosomatic, hormonally caused imbalance,
affecting, and essentially replacing my conscious thought.
So I spent an entire month at a clinic that specializes in
things such as that. When the time came, they hooked me up
with breathing tubes, and heart monitors, and bloodpressure gauges, they pumped chemicals into me to keep my
heart rate steady, and to maintain my core temperature, and
still, just as sudden and unexpected as it had ever come, I
died.
There was some mild panic when all the machines went
haywire, while simultaneously the impostor me pulled out
the IVs and the breathing tubes, yanked off the snap-on
monitors and sat up in the bed. A nice doctor checked my
pulse, and then promptly went as white as I was. They
asked a series of questions, and the imposter me gave them
all the right answers. They asked the imposter me to stay
at the clinic through the week, so that they might perform
tests, and she did. They brought her photographs of the
people in my life, and they brought her my notebook
computer so that she could peruse the internet.
After the third day, they gave up and released her.
went to work.

So she

Nobody at the office seemed to notice. The imposter me sat
down at the long conference table, which was where the
website conducted its morning meetings and decided what the
topics would be for the week’s articles. She brought
everyone bagels. She engaged them in conversation, which I
had never even thought to do before. She proposed to the
group that the idea of the post-feminist in the modern
world was in itself a misogynistic ideology, and that the
average adult woman was now in a constant state of selfcontradiction because of this. She argued that by
continuing to recognize the so-called stigma of enigmatic
socialized male dominance, we were, as a sex, perpetuating
its own continuation. That we, while seemingly grinding
away at achieving a sense of cognitive equality, we were,
by our own hands creating a more destructive force than
there might be were we to simply stop.

She got me a duel assignment to write on the ascension of
female-friendly pornography into the open market, and on
the top ten techniques for giving a blowjob.
While all this is happening, I am somewhere deep beneath
the earth, unable to move, or breath, or shout, hearing
everything through the soft-sounding muffle of the soil. I
can smell myself rotting. It is incredibly unpleasant.
There is a sort of numbness buzzing throughout my body, but
I can also feel things, living things, slithering, and
squirming, and crawling with hundreds of sharp, tiny legs
throughout my insides. Every once and a while, something
will chew a hole through my small intestine, or slide
thickly out my nose, or ear canal and the numbness seems to
break. I almost start to welcome it. My body tightens as
if I were being forced to flex all of my muscles
simultaneously, and with the strength of ten of me. I
become ridged, and taut.
And the week goes on, while the imposter me goes about my
days as if they were hers. She cleans me, and brushed my
teeth and hair. She goes out and sees some of my friends,
taking pictures, always documenting. She drives my car,
always remembering to stop and get gas. She comes home and
feeds my body, and she makes collages for me, so that I can
see what I’ve missed. It’s far too dark for me to see, not
down there, not way down there where all the stillness of
the world goes to settle.
I need to tell you now how much I love you for all of this.
For your understanding. How much it means to me that you
have immersed yourself in what others might see as a
burden. For loving me back in the face of otherwise
scientific improbability. I adore the way in which you are
able to look past my possibly crippling situation and see
the much larger picture at work. Already I feel myself
hopelessly devoted to you. Are you still reading?
When it’s over, and I come back into myself, I spend days
showering. I scour my body with water so hot it’s nearly
boiling, so that my skin tingles, and burns with precious
nerves. I can never seem to get the smell out. I void
repeatedly, and force myself to be sick all over the floormat of my shower. Then the water goes cold and I look
through the collages that have been left for me, while I
wait for the boiler in the basement to heat the water back
up. I read over and over what she’s written for the
website. I proofread, and make small notations, which I

leave for her. I check up on my social media outlets, and
on my online journal. I search the internet history to see
which websites she has left comments on. I sometimes take
them down, but mostly I leave them there.
I can’t make promises for her. That’s something you’ll
have to accept because I barely know her. I don’t know
that she is capable of loving you, but I will. And I wont
mind when you fall in love with her. It seems like
everyone does. And we can make lives for each other, the
unfortunate three of us.
So choose.


