Vince Savage walked out the door of Centurion Enterprises’ vast corporate campus
and was met by the glare of a mid-June, noontime sun. Having just been summarily
let go, he stood there, briefcase in hand, and tried to absorb the severity of his
situation. He numbly walked down the manicured main entrance and onto a path
leading to the Northwest parking lot several hundred yards away.
The last seventy-five yards passed through a stand of evergreen and hardwood
trees. Midway, a wooden bridge provided passage over a quaint brook. Swarms of
mosquitoes and blackflies tainted the idyllic environment, and signs warned that the
area would be closed for spraying the upcoming weekend.
Vince emerged from the trees and entered the parking lot. Despite the frantic
waving of his right hand, one tiny, pesky bug stuck with him, rooted a few inches to
the right of his right eye, barely in view. He swatted at it, but the bug persisted.
Finally, he set his briefcase down and clumsily circled while frantically waving his
arms around his head. A chunky five feet nine, with shirt hanging out and tie amiss,
the sweaty Vince, now a forty-two-year-old unemployed R&D manager, resembled a
defeated interviewee.
Two neatly attired young women approached him as they walked toward the
bridge. When they strolled past, one looked up from her phone and giggled, “How’s it
going, Vince?” The pair were marketing interns that worked for Vince’s ex-wife,
Linda.

Vince picked up the briefcase, tossed it into the trunk of his nearby car, and
hurried to the driver’s side door. “Freaking gnat!” he yelled as he squeezed in,
flapping his right hand around his head. He slammed the door, leaned back, and
closed his eyes. The virtually air tight car was silent. Smiling, he opened his eyes,
then immediately lunged forward and blasted out a stream of expletives. A pair of
coworkers, Roger and Nate, walked past the car. Roger knocked on the driver’s side
window.
“Vince, are you ok?” Roger asked as the window rolled down.
“No, I’m not,” said Vince. “I managed to let in a bug…or something. Probably a
weird gnat that migrated to Maine thanks to global warming. You can’t even hear it
buzz. It’s next to my right eye, see?” Vince tilted his head.
Roger and Nate exchanged glances. “Must have flown out, Vince,” said Nate.
“No, it’s right here!” yelled Vince as his right hand formed a pistol pointed at his
head.
“Well, it’ll fly out soon,” said Roger. “Where are you headed?”
“Home! I got fired—no heads up, no explanation; just a severance package.”
“Oh…” said Roger as he and Nate backed off. “I’m…sorry.”
“Well, whatever,” said Vince. “Anyway, good luck. No doubt this is the beginning
of a massive layoff, especially if they let someone like me go.”
Vince started the car and sped down the exit road. Just before the open security
gate, the gnat appeared directly in front of his right eye. He swerved, barely missing
a concrete post in front of the guard shack, then drove a short way before pulling over.

Vince eyed the side view mirror and saw the guard shack alert light transition from
green to yellow.
He rolled the window down and rested his left arm on it as two security guards in
an SUV pulled up. One of them walked over. “Is everything ok, Mr. Savage?”
“No, I just got canned!” As he said that, Vince noticed a grayish spot on the back
of his left hand. He slammed his right palm on it, then slowly lifted his hand. The
spot faded away.
“Did you see that? The gnat sort of dematerialized after I squashed it!”
“I’m sorry, sir, I didn’t see anything,” replied the guard, who nodded to his partner.
“I suggest you take a moment to compose yourself and then go home.”
Vince sighed and rolled up his window, relieved to at least be free of the gnat.
Within seconds of driving off, though, he began to pound the steering wheel with his
left hand. The gnat, or another one, was back in formation.

Now divorced and out of work, Vince entered the stillness of his apartment at
Glidden Towers in Portland. Although analytical in nature, he was nonetheless
stumped by the mysteries of relationships. A lame counseling session prior to the ‘no
fault’ divorce three months ago did nothing to enlighten him. The best insight came
from Stan Wiley, a Centurion counterpart, over a few beers at a local pub:
“Let’s face it,” said Stan, “you’re an introvert, she’s an extrovert; you’re eccentric,
she’s organized; you’re cheap beer, she’s fine wine.” He paused. “You’re frumpy, she’s
elegant.”

3

Gnat

“I get the message, Stan,” said Vince. “You didn’t have to throw in that last bit.”
“The bottom line, Vince, is that you’re a Centurion lifer and Linda is a future CEO,
destined for a bigger pond someday.”
A marketing executive, Linda made more money than Vince. The divorce was
straight forward and the settlement fair. They had no children and remained friendly.
Still, Vince grappled with uncertainty. What didn’t he see? Despite what Stan said,
there had to be more.
After grabbing a beer from the refrigerator, Vince sank into the couch in the open
living area and instinctively raised his hand to brush away the gnat. “This just sucks,”
he muttered as he aborted the swat attempt and downed half his beer.
Vince pondered the gnat situation: Shouldn’t have swatted the thing so quickly,
he thought. I blew a chance to get a closer look at it. Maybe I have the Zika II virus

and am going mad; those blood suckers ate me alive when I was walking to my car. I
can see the write-up in the paper now: “Recently part of a massive layoff at Centurion
Enterprises, Vince Savage jumped off the fifteenth floor balcony of his Glidden
Towers apartment. He likely had gone mad after contracting the Zika II virus.”

Hopefully they won’t mention that I got fired on a Monday. Cripes, how bad is that?
Vince finished his beer and walked into the bathroom. Of course, he thought, look

in the mirror; should have done that when I was in the car!
Vince peered into the mirror over the sink—no gnat in the mirror, and none in his
field of vision! He tried different angles, low light, bright light, jumping up and
down—nothing. Back in his living room, selfies and even a web cam session between

4

Gnat

his laptop and a desktop produced the same result. “I’m freaking hallucinating,” he
said aloud. “Must be my meds.”
He sat back down on the couch just as his cell phone rang. Recognizing the caller,
he blandly answered, “Hi, Linda, what’s up?”
“What’s up!” Linda shouted. “Christ, Vince, I heard they let you go and that you
were acting strange on your way out!”
Vince breathlessly replied, “I’m all right, just a bit shell shocked. But I keep seeing
a gnat out of the corner of my right eye. I thought I killed it but it came back. It’s
always there, except once in a while it appears in front of my eye for a second. It
doesn’t buzz, though, and I can’t see it when I look in the mirror. I couldn’t even see
it when I took a selfie. For the past several weeks I’ve been taking anxiety meds and
staying up late working and then having a few too many drinks before crashing. But
that’s going to change. I’m going to turn in early tonight and regroup tomorrow. I’ll
be fine.”
“I’m so sorry, Vince,” said Linda. “Listen, take care of yourself and let me know
if…you know, if you need anything…a reference or something. I’m really glad we can
talk like this. I…miss you.”
“Yuh...well…me too. Bye.” Frustrated, Vince tossed the phone onto the coffee
table, wishing he could read people better.
*
Vince crashed on the couch yet managed to pull himself upright at seven Tuesday
morning. Noting the empty bottles and a loaded, half eaten, extra-large pizza, he said,

5

Gnat

“Well, very nice of me to buy me a pizza.” He picked the delivery receipt out of the
rubble. “Ordered at ten forty-four PM, I assume by me. So much for turning in early.”
Despite only a few hours of beery sleep, Vince felt refreshed. Given his generous
severance pay, he decided to take on the gnat problem before dealing with his other
issues. Nothing like a good technical challenge to displace the mental clutter of
personnel matters.
After coffee, Vince retrieved the local newspaper outside his door. The paper didn’t
mention any layoffs at Centurion, and now he wished he had grilled Linda for some
scuttlebutt. Layoffs were sometimes executed to get rid of the ‘dead wood’, a tag that
certainly didn’t apply to him. He needed to make some calls, and check voice and text
messages, but they would have to wait.
Vince recalled a plan he worked up while binging on the beer and pizza, a plan
formed during the creative period that occurred before his free fall into useless
drunkenness. To get a glimpse of the elusive gnat, he concluded stealth was required,
and decided to construct a simple three-axis infrared camera array to photograph it
in the dark.
A trip to a camera store resulted in the purchase of six cameras along with several
customizable stands. While there, Vince questioned his obsessive behavior: wouldn’t
it make more sense to apply it to future employment pursuits? In reality, though, he
was in his element. Being a manager didn’t mean he had lost touch with his lab rat
inner self. In fact, over time, he had transformed his apartment into a geek pad.
*

6

Gnat

“Ok,” said Vince, surrounded by his gear and talking to himself again. “I have to
be standing, and the focal point will be two or so inches to the right of my right eye.”
He looked up. “One camera overhead…” He looked down, “…and one below. One in
front of me, one in back, one to my right and...crap, my head is in the way, I can’t get
a shot from my left! Oh well, now I have an extra camera, no biggie. I’ll have to assume
symmetry and derive the left view from the right side image. So…let’s see. I’ve got
image capture software on my laptop, USB data acquisition hardware, and a remote.
All I have to do is a little programming. Piece of cake! I’ll just take a series of
simultaneous still pictures in complete darkness.”
The electronics were easy. He finished the configuration, wiring, and
programming by midafternoon. The tricky part involved camera locations, especially
the one to be suspended from above. As a result, the cameras ended up in the bedroom
since he could utilize the ceiling fan as a base—after moving the bed.
Setting it all up was surreal, as if he were burying land mines while the enemy
accompanied him. Regardless, Vince ignored his appendage and completed the
project, including a test run, by early evening. He targeted eleven o’clock as the
execution time.
At ten, Vince laid down on his bed. Dense fog coupled with a lone window that
faced away from the city lights left the room sufficiently dark.
He glanced at his watch at ten forty-five and decided to proceed. Remote in hand,
he tip-toed into position amongst the camera array and stood frozen for several
minutes, barely breathing. Finally, he pressed the button and closed his eyes.

7

Gnat

Vince counted to sixty and, surprised at how hard his heart pounded, flicked on
the wall light. He woke up the laptop and started a slideshow. After viewing the first
image, he paused it and went into the kitchen. His hands shook as he pulled a beer
from the fridge and opened it. Back in his bedroom, he contemplated the image—a
complex, impossibly intricate entity. He had no idea what it could be.
*
Following the slide show, Vince launched his CAD software and imported the best
image from each viewpoint. He invoked the software’s sophisticated rendering
feature, which, twenty agonizing minutes later, revealed a detailed, threedimensional image of a drone with four rotary blades. Dimensioned to a scale he had
predicted, its longest span was three millimeters. He created multiple backups of all
files and, totally wired, prepared for an all-nighter.
It was time to check voice mails and text messages. A missed call came from Barry
Holbrook, peculiar because Barry abruptly left Centurion several months ago and
disappeared amidst a wave of sensational rumors. He had been a highly regarded
robotics expert, particularly at the ultra-miniature scale. The two of them had rarely
crossed paths, however. Curious, Vince called him even though it was now past
midnight on Wednesday.
Barry answered immediately. “Hi Vince, I was hoping you’d call. You ok?”
“Sure…well…not really,” said Vince haltingly, surprised to actually hear Barry’s
voice. “A lot is going on. And you? You dropped completely off the radar.”

8

Gnat

“Been subterranean, so to speak,” replied Barry. “I’ve also been monitoring the air
waves. I heard you were let go for no reason. Is that true?”
“It is. I have no idea why, or even how many others were let go.” And why do you

care? Vince thought.
“I can shed some light on that,” said Barry, “but we need to meet in person, and
right away. One thing I know is that you were the only person who was given walking
papers. I’ll contact you shortly on a secure channel.”
“Ok,” said Vince, “but I have to tell you that there’s this weird…”
Barry hung up before Vince could tell him about the gnat. So, he thought, Barry

is still around.
‘Secure channel’ was a tongue-in-cheek Centurion way of saying, “Let’s meet at
Denny’s Restaurant.” For some, working offsite provided therapeutic value during
grueling spells of weeks on end without a break.
*
“Black coffee please,” Vince said to the waitress after settling into a seat opposite
Barry. As his extended hand was swallowed by Barry’s meaty mitt, he appreciated
the paradox of Barry— six feet six, over three hundred pounds, thick glasses, master
of building tiny robots.
“You left quite the trail of intrigue when you suddenly vanished last January,”
said Vince. “What was that about; why did you go radio silent?”
“I’ll explain my situation in a moment, Vince,” replied Barry testily. “First,
though, tell me what you were going to say before I cut you off.”

9

Gnat

“Show and tell time then,” said Vince as he set up his laptop. “After being escorted
out, I walked through the mosquito mine field crossing the bridge. I emerged with a
freaking gnat practically attached to me. It’s with me now, right here,” Vince pointed
to his right ear, “but you can’t see it. Anyway, I captured images of it with an infrared
camera array and built a CAD model. Here it is.” He spun his laptop around and
pushed it in front of Barry.
Barry studied the 3D model as he scaled, zoomed, and rotated it. “That’s my drone
design, Vince, Centurion stole it from me.”
Vince regarded Barry with disbelief. “Come again?”
“Well, it’s like this,” Barry explained. “Prior to being hired, I was on my own,
developing what I call the Organic Micro Drone, or OMD for short. It’s based on
nanotechnology. I personally financed it, and intended to market it to the
government, but I ran into cash flow issues. I needed income and Centurion wanted
someone to help them develop a drone for their factory automation. I let my guard
down, and they swiped my prototype OMD design. That’s probably what they had in
mind all along. Long story short, I was abruptly informed in January that my services
were no longer needed. They gave me the boot and six months’ pay. That gnat, as you
call it, is their crude implementation of my design.”
Vince frowned. “I need to wrap my head around this,” he said, “so let me ask a few
technical questions. First, how come I can see it out of the corner of my eye but not
when I look in a mirror? And how come no one else can see it?”

10

Gnat

“It’s all optics and weird science,” replied Barry. “It’s likely that some people who
have a vision profile similar to yours can see it. It exposes a major flaw on Centurion’s
part. Like my prototype, their drone fluctuates between translucency and
transparency; they apparently couldn’t figure out how to make it completely
transparent. They also botched its positioning system. Most of the time it’s supposed
to be several feet from you. Their implementation has flaws that mine doesn’t.”
“Ok, so why is this OMD hanging around me?”
“Because, Vince, you are Centurion’s first test subject.”
“Test subject!” said Vince as he leaned forward. “What the hell does that mean?”
“I don’t know yet, but remember the two interns and your coworkers back in the
parking lot?”
“Yes,” Vince stiffly replied, wondering how Barry even knew about them.
“Well,” said Barry, “they and the security guard you talked to reported your odd
behavior. Did the guard have sunglasses on?”
Vince nodded. “Yup, unusual ones, lighter than normal, and wavy.”
“I thought so. While working on the translucence problem, I designed a lens that
allowed me to see a sort of ghost image of the OMD. They stole that too. The guard
lied to you; he was able to see the OMD, and he confirmed it by signaling his partner.”
“But I squashed it. How did another one appear?”
“Simple,” Barry replied. “You didn’t squash the OMD; it was being absorbed into
your skin through rapid osmosis. It charges its tiny power system using your body’s
electrolytes, then re-emerges.”

11

Gnat

“And it occasionally appears in front of my eye because…”
Barry smiled smugly. “Because of periodic calibration. It scans your right eye to
confirm you’re the intended host. There are some amazing optics behind all this, not
to mention a processor and communications. It’s super tough, too, able to withstand
environmental stresses much greater than those we humans are subjected to,
including submersion. It’s not ready for space travel, though, I’m working on that.”
“Yes, I’m sure you are,” said Vince. “So what is the purpose of this thing?”
“It’s very basic,” replied Barry. “The OMD finds you, follows you, and reports your
location. My newest version has the ability to monitor a few vitals as well.”
Vince stared intently at Barry. “Why am I the test subject?”
“I have some very loyal allies at Centurion, Vince. They told me it was Linda that
suggested you be the initial test subject.”
“That can’t be!” cried Vince. “Someone put her up to it. I mean…” He looked away.
“Think about it, Vince. Who does she work for?”
Vince sighed. “Carlozzi, a vicious cutthroat. Banished his own son because he
screwed up once. He’s a master of getting you dirty, and once he does, he owns you.”
To which Barry said, “And he’s the head of—”
“—the Division of Classified Enterprises,” Vince finished. “Ok, I get it, but why,
how? What they’re doing has to be a felony.”
“Look,” said Barry, “we’re into the wee hours of the morning. Let’s meet here at
noon for lunch to figure out our next steps. Do not—and I really mean do not— talk
to anyone, especially Linda.”

12

Gnat

*
Vince returned to his apartment and immediately dropped onto the couch. He
woke up at sixty-thirty, made coffee, and turned on the TV as the NBC Today Show
broadcasted a breaking news item:

“…will be conducting a press conference in the White House briefing room at nine
eastern time to announce the roll out of a national ID initiative based on retinal scan
technology. As you recall, this was a campaign promise he made when he ran for his
second term in office. Additionally, at eight tonight, the President will deliver a
speech from the Oval Office. NBC will be covering both of these events live…”

About time, Vince thought as he walked into the kitchen. He’ll probably outline it
at nine and then add details during the Oval Office speech. It’ll be interesting to hear
Barry’s take on it when we meet for lunch at Denny’s.
After breakfast, Vince realized he hadn’t noticed the gnat since Barry had advised
him at Denny’s his brain would soon begin filtering out the annoying specter.
Somewhat relieved, he stayed glued to the TV until nine. Following the usual opening
formalities, the President addressed the press:

“As you know, when I ran for my second term, I promised a national ID program
based on retinal scan technology. I am here today to announce that, because of lack
of cooperation from Congress, I am using my executive authority to roll out the

13

Gnat

National Retinal Scan Identification Program, to be called RSID for short, and it will
be fully implemented by the Department of Homeland Security within one year.
“What this means is that anyone on United States soil, including territories, as
well as U.S. embassies, military installations, and other such entities around the
world, shall require the RSID. There will be many stipulations, such as, you may not
enter our country without first having one. This means you will be scanned as you
deboard an international flight. If your RSID isn’t found, you will be held for a
security clearance check. If cleared, your RSID will be created.
“In addition, the United States Government has partnered with Centurion
Enterprises in Portland, Maine, to implement an incredible technology it has
developed called the Organic Micro Drone, or OMD. This gnat sized drone will be
used for real time tracking of individuals such as immigrants, felons, and suspected
terrorists—to name a few—as well as people associated with radical religions, antigovernment movements, biased media organizations, cults, gangs, cartels, and so on.
I will give more detailed information tonight in my address from the Oval Office. I
will not be taking any questions. Thank you.”

Vince sat paralyzed on the couch. Did I actually hear the words ‘Centurion

Enterprises’ and ‘Organic Micro Drone’? he mused. Is the endgame to have an OMD
tethered to everyone? He reached for the anxiety pills on the coffee table, hesitated,
and sat back. Instead, he called Barry. The phone rang, but didn’t go into voice mail.

14

Gnat

With the camera array still in place, he figured he had enough time to execute another
image capture. He did, and the gnat didn’t appear in any image.
*
Vince walked into Denny’s at noon and sat down at the counter. Nearly an hour
later, Barry still hadn’t shown up. He dialed his number again; this time it wasn’t
recognized. His hand trembled as he set the phone down. It was obvious to Vince that
roughly twelve hours ago, here at Denny’s, the OMD had been instructed to register
Barry as its new host. Centurion, of course, had retained a copy of Barry’s retinal
scan in its digital image library.
He hurried back to his apartment, his brain on fire. It made sense now—sort of.
Carlozzi and the President were distant cousins. Linda’s late nights at Centurion
prior to the divorce were no doubt coerced rendezvouses with Carlozzi, and her
insistence on an amicable divorce had been driven by remorse. Barry was surely gone,
and his Centurion allies as well. But where to? Were they dead, or had they been
shuttled to a safe house by a benefactor? And what of his own fate?
Back in his apartment, Vince initiated reformats of the hard drives on his
computers, then quickly stuffed a few personal items into a travel bag, including his
laptop, the cameras, and all external memory devices. He left his apartment key cards
on the kitchen counter and started to the door just as his cell phone began to ring.
Vince stared at the phone. The call terminated when it went into voice mail. As
he tried to digest the caller ID—Department of Homeland Security—something off

15

Gnat

the corner of his right eye caught his attention. “Oh my god!” he said. A wave of fear
pierced him as he ran to the door and opened it.
“I’ll take the bag, Vince,” said Barry, walking up to him as two other men grabbed
his arms. “You should never have been the test subject. Now we have a major clean
up ahead of us. Sorry.”
“We! We who? Who are you with; where are we going?” Vince struggled as they
marched toward the exit. Barry said nothing. He opened the door, and the four of
them disappeared down the stairs seconds before another entourage burst out of a
nearby elevator and hastily made their way to Vince’s apartment. Seeing his door
open, they turned and ran to the exit, but were too late. By the time they reached the
ground floor, Vince was hunkered down in the back of a nondescript van making its
way out of Portland.

16


