Uncle always lived in the other house. By himself. When he was younger, before I was
born, he was a truck driver. Then he was a drummer for a while with a band called Texas Red.
Then he got married but his wife left him after three years. Then he got sick and had to stay in a
looney bin for a while. When he got out, he moved into the other house on Mama’s property, ten
miles outside of Glenville, in southern Indiana. He stayed holed up in the other house, most of
the time, in his bedroom which smelled like a man’s armpit.
Sometimes, at night, he’d put on his clodhopper boots and light a kerosene lantern and
leash up Porter, Mama’s hound dog, and take his gun and Porter up into the thirty-seven-acre
woods that grew behind Mama’s house and partly behind his. Sometimes in the morning, there’d
be a raccoon, skinned and cleaned and floating headless, in a big pot of cold salt water on
Mama’s covered porch. Sometimes he left Porter behind and went up alone. On those nights, I
could hear him shooting in the woods so late at night that the moon was already to the other side
of the sky.
Uncle drank Johnny Walker sometimes and when he was drunk, he didn’t want nobody
to come to his house. I’m the one who brought him his breakfast. I’d walk it over, set it on the
kitchen counter and collect the dishes from the morning before, but when he was drinking, he
called Mama on the phone and told her not to send no motherfucking eggs and bacon over
because he’s sick of her cooking and knows she wants to poison him so she can get his part of
the property.
Mama took the breakfast over herself on those days and yelled at her brother to get out of
bed and clean his stinky, drunk ass up. Mama took the cartridges from the gun that sat
cattycorner next to his kitchen stove on those days too, because she said she don’t want to have
to clean Uncle’s brains off the greasy walls.
That way of living, that breakfast routine, that coon hunting, went on for a while. From
the time I was nine years old until I was thirteen.
One day, Uncle yelled down at me to bring the breakfast up to him and not leave it on the
kitchen counter. I never did that before and was a little nervous of what I might find up there in
the dark dust at the top of the stairs. I walked it up and left it at the door of his bedroom, then ran
down. I feared Uncle because he always yelled cusswords and he had that gun that Mama said
she wish he didn’t have but if she took it from him, he’d just call an Uber to drive him to Junior’s
to buy another one. Uncle got a disability check and he didn’t use it for nothing but to call a Uber
to town to buy whiskey and sometimes gave it to Mama for his groceries or when she needed to
pay his phone bill or the property taxes.
Next morning, Uncle told me to bring the breakfast up to him again. I did, and I was
fixing to leave it at the bedroom door when Uncle jerked open the bedroom door and stood there
with no shirt on, wearing a pair of old jeans, cut off at the knee. Uncle was pale and skinny, and
his chest was curved in a little. Uncle smelled terrible, like he just burped up whiskey and blew
his breath into the air.
“Bring that tray on in here Stacy and set it down on the nightstand there.”
I wasn’t sure if I should, but he was smiling a little and he seemed normal acting. I went
on in and set the tray down. I tried not to crinkle up my nose at the smell coming from the bed.
“Look what I did to that microwave, Stacy,” Uncle said. He pointed to his broken up
dented microwave that was on top of his clothes dresser. I looked at it, nodded and fast-walked
out of the bedroom and down the stairs.
He yelled down at me. “Tell your mama I taught that coon dog to fly. He can fly now,
Stacy. Porter can fly. I taught him. High enough to get in them trees and catch a racoon. Tell
your mom she’s got a special dog.”
I went to the kitchen and picked up the tray of dishes from the morning before and high
tailed it back to Mama’s house. I turned to look at Uncle’s house just once. Uncle was watching
me from out the bedroom window.
Next day, when I brought over his breakfast, he didn’t say anything. Didn’t yell down the
stairs, didn’t look out the window when I walked back to Mama’s.
The day after that was the same and then the same again. Uncle went hunting that second
night and, in the morning, Mama found a raccoon floating in water on the covered porch.
On my thirteenth birthday, Mama called Uncle and asked if he wanted me to bring over a
slice of birthday cake. Uncle must have said yes, because Mama cut a big slice of chocolate cake
and put it on a paper plate and gave it to me to take to Uncle.
“Mama,” I said. “Go with me. You ain’t seen Uncle for a long time now.”
“Yeah, I know. He just makes me sad, though. When I go over there, he never looks good
and he always wants to start an argument with me. Just put the cake in the kitchen and leave.”
This seemed wrong to me. It wasn’t usually what I did. I usually carried eggs and toast
and bacon and coffee. Not something special as birthday cake.
I took the plate of cake and walked on to Uncle’s house. I saw a movement at the
window, when I looked up directly, the curtains waved a little like Uncle had been looking and
just dropped them back down.
When I got close to the house, Uncle came out naked, with his man stuff hanging out for
me to see. He had his gun.

5

“Happy Birthday,” Uncle said, and he grabbed the cake from me. He handed me his rifle.
“Reckon you’re old enough now. I don’t have any presents for you so I’m giving you my
rifle. Okay? And tell your Mama I’m tired of her using her microwave oven to read my thoughts.
And… and I know what goes on in them microwaves. She’s just trying to get proof to send me
back to the looney bin, so she can have all the land and my house. I’m not crazy. And I lost your
mama’s dog, Stacy. Tell her I’m sorry about that. He just flew away and I can’t find him
nowhere. Tell her Stacy.”
I didn’t want his rifle, but I didn’t know how to say no to Uncle, so I took it.
“Thank you,” I said and left Uncle standing there naked, holding the birthday cake. I ran
the rifle back to Mama’s house and showed it to her. I told Mama he came out naked and what
he said about her and her microwave oven. I told Mama he didn’t seem to know he was showing
his man stuff. I told her he lost Porter too, but Mama said she just saw Porter not twenty minutes
ago, running out of the woods.
Mama took the gun from my hands, took out the cartridges and put them in the kitchen
drawer, then carried the gun down to the basement. Mama hid it behind a rolled-up carpet in the
corner by the meat freezer.
Next thing I know, Mama is calling Uncle and cussing him out about coming outside
with no clothes on and giving a loaded rifle to her daughter. Mama told him there is no way to
use a microwave oven to get into his brain and that he needs to get back on his meds. Mama said
if he ever does anything crazy like that again, she’ll call the sheriff to take him back to the
psycho hospital, where he belongs.
In the morning, Mama made him pancakes and she took them over herself. Mama said
she wanted to apologize for her angry conversation the night before and talk Uncle into letting

6

her take him back to the doctor. Mama only stayed a short time and when she came back, her
face was red, and her mouth was in a frown.
Uncle was gone from the house. And Porter was gone too. Mama walked up to the edge
of the trees, hoping to see Uncle coming out from the woods. When evening came, Mama waited
inside her house, listening all night for a holler from Uncle or a coon dog howl from Porter, and
watching out the kitchen window for any sign of Uncle or Porter. When morning came, Mama
called the sheriff.
After an hour or so, a brown and tan sheriff's car pulled into the driveway. Sheriff got out
and walked around with Mama looking for clues, I guess, or something. Mama walked the
sheriff up to Uncle’s house. They went inside, and I heard Mama yelling then she screamed, and
I heard two shots.
Next thing I know, Uncle ran outside naked and came running toward Mama’s house. I
went quick down to the basement and got my birthday rifle. I ran back up to the kitchen and
opened the drawer where Mama hid the cartridges.
By that time, Uncle was on the front porch, with his hand on the door handle. When he
opened the door, I raised the rifle and aimed straight at his face. Uncle just froze, stood there
looking at the end of the rifle, then back at me.
“Might as well shoot me, Stacy, because I just killed your mama and that fat ass sheriff
with his own gun.”
“Why’d you do that?”
“It’s your birthday and I wanted to give you something to remember.”
He cried then, tears running down his cheeks, face turning red. I was crying too but I held
the rifle aimed steady at his face.

7

“That’s a lie, Stacy. I didn’t want to kill nobody, but I don’t want to go back to the looney
bin. Microwaves are puttin my thoughts out there so everybody can say I’m crazy.”
Uncle backed away, ran out the front door. Ran back into his house and came out with a
set of keys. Uncle got into the sheriff's brown and tan and backed out of the driveway, squealing
tires and kicking up gravel. I called 911 and soon I see one state police car pull into Mama’s
driveway and two other police cars speeding on. A helicopter passed above, and I knew they
were chasing Uncle.
A moment later, I saw Porter. He was flying behind the helicopter. His long hound ears
were flapping like hummingbird wings. He dipped and bumped through the air but stayed
dangerously close to the helicopter. I was scared for him. I called for him to come down, but he
didn’t hear me.


