Ebin Connors was a unique politician. In a nation where almost all men in politics are controlled
by special interests, it is rare to find one who actually cares. It can be said that you know when a
politician is a threat to the established order of things when bureaucrats, public officials and journalists
from both sides of the aisle have mutual interests in fiercely destroying him. However, the American
public loved Ebin.
As a 44 year old Libertarian senator from a small town outside Louisville, Kentucky, Ebin
garnered much enthusiasm for his support of civil liberties as well as the support of many wealthy
businessmen who support his laissez-faire economic policies. Most importantly, he gained the support
of powerful lawyers, judges and some of their legal entities who advocate transparency in government
and the civil liberties of civilians.
Ebin twisted every arm and pulled every string possible to attack what he thought was America’s
greatest threat- the intelligence community. He did not like the authority given to the intelligence
community no more than he liked the authority given to other bureaucratic arms of government, such
as the FDA and the EPA. However, he was concerned the most with the nature of the intelligence
community’s affairs because it dealt with foreign policy in a very volatile post-9/11 world where it
seemed too easy to think the system of checks and balance did not exist in such an intense arena. Also,
he was suspicious of alleged research going on under the radar in secret military bases and became
determined to find answers no matter what the consequences.
Often, Ebin was painted as a lunatic for his persistence in calling for the Senate to investigate
these conspiratorial claims. As a result, he attracted much media attention and gained quite a large cult
following in the emerging conspiracy culture that was gaining popularity due to the internet. One day, a
whistle blower for the Defense Advanced Research Programs Agency (DARPA) came to Ebin to disclose

top-secret information that only he had access to. It shocked Ebin that someone of that organization
would trust him with such information.
Ebin sat in disbelief when the so-called whistle blower, James Marquette, spoke to him about
some seemingly "out-there” claims. Marquette spoke about his role as an administrator of operations at
DARPA and the fact that the United States military had recently invented a time machine. Ebin rolled his
eyes in disbelief when he heard this claim and was about to leave when Marquette assured him he had
clearance to the facility where the time machine was held, and insisted that he could prove the time
machine’s existence.
Intrigued by Marquette’s proposition, Ebin became consumed by the possible ramifications of
the existence of a time machine. He knew no matter how crazy this sounded that, even for his own
curiosity, he had to confirm or deny Marquette’s claims. Marquette told Ebin that if he desired he could
take him back in time. After much thought and deliberation, and despite some misgivings, Ebin agreed
to meet Marquette the next evening.
The two met at a designated location the next night. From there, James escorted Ebin through a
high security military facility and brought him to the machine that he told him would transport him to
the past. Standing in front of the enormous machine, Ebin was still unconvinced that it would bring him
back in time, but he could not help thinking about the philosophical implications of such a machine if it
were to work.
Ebin also contemplated where he would go if he could indeed go somewhere in time, and he
thought about the only moment in his own history in which he would like to go back and change; in
September of 1995, Ebin was engaged to a lovely woman named Sharon. One evening they decided to
have a couple of drinks on the side of the road before they went to a much hyped new club. After a few
moments of drinking, laughing and having a good time, the two were startled when two men wearing

Halloween masks pounded on the driver’s side window. The men each pulled out pistols as soon as Ebin
rolled down the window. After that, the men easily talked their way into the car and demanded money
as they held a gun on both Ebin and his fiancé’s head.
Attempting to save the day, Ebin acted like he was grabbing his wallet when in reality he
grabbed a tiny pocket-knife that he had on his key-chain. As soon as the knife was out he pulled and
stabbed the man with the gun pointed at Sharon’s head. The moment Ebin plunged his knife in the one
man the other one knocked him over the head and shot Sharon in the head.
This moment changed Ebin’s life and still haunted him even after the passage of many years.
That too familiar thought of wishing he had a second chance came back to him at once. Ebin realized
that if he could go back in time he would choose that day; otherwise he would never be able to let go of
those suppressed but reemerging feelings of guilt, hate, and anger. After Marquette rambled on for
what seemed like hours, Ebin stepped into this huge machine and said "bring me back to September
17th 1984”.
The process was quite quick and when the weird noises shut off, Ebin hesitantly opened the
door. To his amazement, he was somewhere completely different. After a few moments, he realized he
was in the forest of the little Kentucky town where he grew up. He felt flabbergasted and thought, "It
worked! I am back in 1984!”
It took a couple hours before Ebin calmed down from the nervousness and noise that he
experienced after his time travelling expedition. Then, he remembered what day it was and why he
chose to arrive at this time. Still shaken up, Ebin hesitated to go through with any plans he made to
change history, but mentally reliving that horrible life-changing moment motivated him to continue on
with the plan.

Ebin clearly remembered the exact time and place where these fateful and horrific tragedies
would occur later in the evening. After gathering the supplies he needed to exact his revenge, the day
passed slowly while he waited anxiously in the bushes across the street from the place where a couple
of thugs would soon creep up and attempt to rob his past self and his beloved at gun point.
While waiting, Ebin became nearly paralyzed by his passion for revenge when he peaked
through the bushes and observed himself as a younger man and the young lady he once loved pull up in
his old car and share drinks and good laughs together. To him, this was almost unbearably surreal. His
state of emotional turmoil quickly turned into a state of hate and revenge as he saw the two masked
men approach the car. Compelled to act, Ebin rushed out of the bushes with his baseball bat and
savagely beat the two men before history was able unravel as it did before.
As a result of acting so instinctively in preventing history from repeating, Ebin did not remember
the warnings Marquette gave him about the dangers of time travel. He did not stop to contemplate how
the future would be changed as a result of a change in the past. As a matter fact, the reason Marquette
had come to him in the first place was to make sure appropriate steps were taken to shut down the
study of this technology, which he believed to be unethical and dangerous. It did not take long before
Ebin cooled down and considered the repercussions of his actions.
Scared of what he might have done, he rushed back to the forest where he left the time
machine only to find that it was no longer there. In that moment Ebin saw the string of events that
shaped his life and realized that everything in his past had happened for a reason, even the most horrific
moment of his life; Sharon’s death was the defining moment of Ebin’s life and if that did not occur, his
life would have turned out completely different. If Ebin married Sharon, he would have continued to
work at the factory job and would not have gone to law school. Her death forced him to reconsider his
life as a young party going clown, and motivated him to become a man of law who would fight for the

safety and well-being of others. As a result of preventing Sharon’s death, he took away his desire to go
to law school and become a public servant. Since he never became Senator, he never met Marquette
and never went back in time. This occurred to Ebin simultaneously as the fact that a rogue faction of the
United States military had possession of such dangerous technology. The realization that this technology
could be used filled Ebin with anxiety.
Frustrated and scared, Ebin had no idea what to do because he had no money and nowhere to
go. With his stomach tied in knots and his mind perpetually racing, Ebin was forced to clear his mind and
try to find a solution to this dilemma that could plague humanity in all times and places. He knew he was
an anomaly in this working of space and time but became increasingly determined to make his mark on
humanity in a world in which he did not belong. He dedicated his life as a Senator to making a
difference, and now he knew the difference he had to make in the world as a man who was trapped in
history.
Ebin desperately needed a plan. Luckily, Ebin had been a huge football fan in 1984 and could still
recall the scores of many of that year’s games. Ebin then begged enough money to place some small
bets on those football games in which he was most familiar with the outcomes. After winning a few
games, he had enough money to provide himself food and shelter.
A few weeks went while Ebin considered his options as to what to do about this time travel
situation. He decided to take a trip to northern Virginia to confirm that the building that Marquette told
him housed the time travel machine truly existed. He remembered Marquette telling him the research
and innovation for the time travel machine began in the late 1970s and was not successful until the
early 2000s. This meant that Ebin could stop the research and the innovation of such technology before
it materialized as an applicable means of traveling through time.
Ebin not only needed a plan but he needed people and resources to help him. Ebin began to

research political activist groups in an attempt to find the right people who would be willing and able to
help him when he devised a plan. Ebin focused primarily on the right-wing pro-Second Amendment
groups located in the southern United States because he felt that in those groups he could find the right
people.
Ebin soon found a couple of possible candidates at a gun show in northern Texas. The first one,
Larry, was a 32 year old ex-marine who became disillusioned with the government after his military
service and had since become a huge Second Amendment supporter and Constitutionalist. The other
man was Rick, who was a very smart and charismatic radical of sorts. He was one of those huge
conspiracy buffs who believed the bankers were manipulating world history and in extraterrestrial
visitation and technology. Ebin felt good talking to these gentlemen because they both seemed smart
and open minded. They also seemed to be willing because they both insisted that they had an eagerness
for action. It did not take a lot of persuasion on Ebin’s part to convince these men that he was telling the
truth and even less to convince them to go along on his mission.
Ebin convinced the men he was telling the truth about time travel by accurately predicting the
outcome of sports games and future world events. Both Rick and Larry had many more questions than
answers, and luckily Ebin was well equipped to answer them and to motivate them for action. Next, they
had to put their minds together to form a plan. After days of discussion and planning, the group formed
a tentative plan of action. Now, they had to gather the right materials and execute their plan.
Ebin continued to utilize his knowledge of the outcomes of sports events as a means to earn
money. In this manner, he acquired the necessary resources for the master plan. Before Ebin could
finalize his scheme, he needed to understand the layout of the facility in which he planned to attack. He
also needed information about the research, the documents and the scientists involved in the time
travel project. To do this, Ebin planned a mission to kidnap the only scientist he remembered as being

part of the project from the beginning.
Waiting along the empty highway near the tiny passage that led to the facility, Ebin followed the
car of the lead scientist and researcher Eric Hampton. After a quarter mile, Ebin sped up which cut off
Hampton’s car and caused him to swerve off the road.
Hampton got out of his car in a state of shock about what just happened. Ebin ferociously
approached him and punched him in the face before taking him hostage. Ebin drove him to a motel a
couple miles up the road to begin to interrogate him. After a long discussion and much reluctance on
the part of Hampton, Ebin obtained the necessary information to formulate a more effective plan of
action. Most importantly, he got the security details and received information regarding the names of
the important scientists who were conducting the research and making significant progress in time
travel. For the next six weeks, Ebin, Larry and Rick reviewed the plan and got ready to execute their
momentous scheme.
The day had arrived at last. It was a Thursday night, which Ebin was told the facility operated
until late hours and that all the scientists were going to be there. At 7 p.m., Ebin and his crew began to
mobilize, and at 8:15 they were in position to move forward as planned.
An old Volkswagon van wired with explosives was ghost ridden through the main security gate.
The van rigged with a highly volatile fertilizer bomb exploded killing the four main security guards,
annihilating three security vehicles and thus leaving an opening for Ebin and his crew to penetrate. Then
the crew rode into the facility yard in an old pick-up truck, and Ebin, who was riding in bed of the truck,
made sure he had his backpack ready, which had an AK 47 and a lot of explosives. Rick drove the pick-up
and Larry also had an AK 47 which was hanging out the passenger side window in anticipation of the
moment a gun fight would unfold. Seven military personnel ran out the building in an attempt to secure
the location as Ebin and Larry fired relentlessly, killing all but one of the men.

Before the firing subsided, Rick was shot in the throat, lost control of the wheel and the truck
crashed into an industrial size air conditioning unit to the right of the building. Before the truck crashed,
Ebin jumped out of the back bed to capture the one remaining security agent who would be able
provide access to the building. Larry was disoriented from the impact of the crash, but managed to keep
moving forward toward the building. Ebin and Larry entered the building with the assistance of the
captured security guard. Once in the building, Ebin reviewed the information he received from Hampton
and managed to round up and murder the seven primary scientists who worked on the development of
time travel. He also interrogated them for vital information about the science by which time travel
became possible. The final goal was to destroy the research facility under the building.
Just when feelings of optimism and success began to creep into Ebin’s mind, a platoon of
soldiers busted through the doors of the building. Ebin and Larry were on the third floor and needed to
get to the basement. The soldiers were met by gunfire as they made their way to the staircase, and after
dealing with the initial confrontation, Ebin and Larry quickly ran down to the second floor only to meet
heavier resistance. Hiding in an office, the two accepted that they were going to die, but that this was a
cause greater than their lives. With that established, Larry ran out of the room on a suicide mission. He
threw the few grenades he had down the long hallway leading to the staircase where the soldiers were
located and sprinted at a group of fourteen men while firing relentlessly. Larry managed to kill six of the
men and severely wounded four. It took sixteen bullet wounds to stop Larry’s rampage. Sensing the time
to strike was now, Ebin followed suit and attacked the remaining soldiers leaving them all out of
commission.
Ebin continued to run until he was heading down the last set of stairs before the basement
entrance. At that moment, he was shot in the back by a military officer as a second team of
reinforcements entered the building. Ebin fell down the stairs and was laying spread out on the ground

in shock. The shot came out of nowhere and the bulletproof vest he had on was not strong enough to
resist the shot of a high powered military rifle. He quickly got himself together and as the men closed in
on him, he mustered the little bit of fight he had in himself and stood up and fired at the officers to halt
their progress.
Then he opened the door and saw in the distance the rudimentary form of the very time
traveling device he had entered many months ago. He built up strength enough to run toward the
machine right as the battalion of officers flung the door open and began firing. Ebin tried to get as close
to the machine as possible, but was shot several times before he pulled the string on his make-shift
backpack bomb. The explosion was huge. The explosion killed Ebin and the officers but the mission was
a success; the time travel project was destroyed along with the scientists and their research. As a result
of his brave actions, Ebin changed the fate of humanity; time travel has never been tried again and Ebin
Connors will forever remain an unknown hero.


