‘They’re here!’ Alys said disdainfully. As part of her training she had been
tasked with inputting patient notes while the others had been fussing around getting
themselves ready for the visit. She was sat at the computer at the nurses’ station
and swung round the CCTV monitor that recorded the lift area and doors so that
Sister Pritchard and her huddle of staff could watch; she continued with her task,
fingers clicking rapidly over the keyboard.
‘That’s enough, Alys!’ Sister Pritchard hissed. ‘We don’t want that racket when
she comes in. Show some courtesy, some respect.’
Alys raised one eyebrow but complied with the order. She missed working
with the younger staff on the wards of her previous training rotations. Somehow this
geriatric ward had ended up almost exclusively staffed with much older women who
had returned to nursing after raising their families. It was probably all down to the
recent election promises and the new Tory government inducements to attract back
experienced NHS staff.
The older nurses remembered the actress’ films. They peered eagerly over
each other’s shoulders to catch their first glimpse of Amelia Forrester. At the centre
of a large group, the actress was instantly recognisable: tall, ethereal, luxuriant
white-blonde hair cascading over the shoulders of her deepest-black jacket.
Amelia left her PA, makeup artist, hairdresser and others of her entourage
outside. Only Cecil, her photographer, and Leon, her manager, accompanied her
through the double doors onto the ward. Her stilettos clacked noisily as she
advanced, hand forward, to greet the ward sister.
‘Ms Forrester,’ Sister Pritchard said, only just stopping herself from curtseying,
‘it’s an honour to have you visit our hospital, and we’re all so very sorry it is in such
sad circumstances.’
Alys slipped out from behind the desk. ‘Excuse me, Ms Forrester, but we
insist on all visitors to the ward using hand sanitiser when they come in.’ She held
forward the bottle and Amelia, startled, meekly held out her hand for a squirt of the
gel, as did Cecil and Leon. Alys then held it towards Sister Pritchard. ‘You shook
hands,’ she reminded her boss, devilment dancing in her eyes, and received a glare
in return that promised trouble was coming her way later.
Sister Pritchard turned back to the actress, rapidly adjusting her expression to
one of sympathy as she saw Amelia daintily wipe away a tear with a delicate, laceedged handkerchief. With a gentle hand behind Amelia’s back she guided her
towards the private room.
‘You’re very kind, Sister.’ She paused at the threshold, her famous sapphire
blue eyes brimming. ‘But I’d like to go in alone.’
‘Of course, I quite understand,’ she said, and stood back, holding the door
ajar for Amelia. She was letting it swing shut when one of the two men, who had not
been introduced when they came onto the ward with Amelia, said, ‘Excuse me,
Ma’am,’ and followed Amelia in, quickly followed by the camera-wielding
photographer. She turned and half raised her arms, palms out, in an exaggerated
shrug to her staff. ‘What the…?’ she whispered to them. ‘How’s that “alone”?’

Leon whispered in Amelia’s ear as they entered, ‘Don’t forget: right side of the
bed, hold one hand, linger over the kiss on the forehead for Cecil to ensure perfect
lighting.’
They nearly collided when Amelia halted abruptly, the way blocked by a
frumpy, overweight woman who was standing just inside the doorway.
‘Eleanor.’ Amelia’s voice was icy as she acknowledged her sister.
Elly flinched, as though struck: Amelia had always been a good mimic of their
mother’s voice, especially those millions of times when her mother was reprimanding
her for some imagined slight or misdemeanour. Throughout their childhood Amelia
had used that voice to tease and goad her. She couldn’t recall their mother ever
speaking to Amelia that way.
‘You two – out!’ Elly stabbed the air, an expression of absolute fury directed at
the two men; much to their surprise they found they had obeyed her instantly and the
door closed again between them and their employer. She glared at her sister.
‘I was right then,’ she said, shaking her head slowly. ‘I thought you’d bring the
circus with you.’ She went over to the window, turning her back on her sister. ‘And
the really sad thing is you don’t even realise just how despicable you are, trying to
get a photo opportunity even from our mother’s death.’
The vulnerable look Amelia kept for her public had disappeared the moment
she entered the room. ‘It was to be just one photo, Elly, for our personal records,’
she said coldly.
‘Oh dear,’ Elly mocked, turning back. ‘An occasion in your life that won’t be
documented to the last detail. Own up, I’ve stolen your headline: “Amelia Forrester
rushes to sick mother’s bedside” hmmm?’
“Now it’s deathbed rather than bedside. How could you, Elly? What you’ve
stolen is my chance to say goodbye to Mummy.” Tears trickled down her flawless
cheeks.
‘Oh, come on, Amelia,’ Elly snorted, ‘don’t try that with me. I know how well
you cry to order, right from when we were kids.’
‘And didn’t it serve me well!’ Amelia couldn’t help but gloat. ‘But you were
Page 3 of 16

Saying Goodbye
supposed to inform me when she got near the end.’
Elly raised one mocking eyebrow. ‘And I did. And here you are.’
‘You told me when I was thousands of miles away and Mummy was… was…
Oh!’
‘Didn’t want to drag you from your busy life unnecessarily.’ Elly went back to
her seat by the bed, her spine curving in a despondent arch as she tiredly rested her
elbows on her knees and rubbed her hands over her face. She knew she could
verbally run rings around her sister, and their mother could no longer constantly take
Amelia’s side, but suddenly it all seemed so utterly pointless. She glanced up. ‘Do
you intend actually looking at Mum while you’re here?’ she asked.
Amelia turned ashen, her eyes darting across the walls, the floor. ‘I daren’t.’
She retreated to the window and gripped the ledge. ‘You know I’m no good with sick
people and… and…’ She licked her lips nervously, head drooping, arms tight to her
side as though trying to become smaller, to disappear from the room.
‘I’m not asking you to touch her, even though she’s still warm. Just look at her.
How were you going to get that photo if you won’t even look at her?’
Amelia laughed a rather grim little laugh. ‘I’m more frightened of Leon than I
am of…’ She shuddered.
‘Bodies… cadavers… mortal remains…’ Elly filled in for her. ‘All good terms,
take your pick.’ Silence stretched between them. ‘No doubt you’ve arranged a press
conference; what will you say?’
Amelia drew herself up ramrod straight again, refusing to admit that she only
rated a few freelance hacks these days. ‘Speaking of which,’ she said, brushing
imaginary dust off her hands, ‘my staff are very good but they’ve got their work cut
out doing a makeover on you beforehand.’ She grimaced a little, looking at Elly’s
Page 4 of 16

Saying Goodbye
crumpled and rather grubby tee and jeans. ‘You’ve really let yourself go.’
‘Publicity is your thing, not mine.’ She glanced down and idly scratched at a
food stain on her thigh. ‘And if I look rather the worse for wear, just remember that
I’ve been sole carer for Mum since I was fifteen and you fled to LA: I don’t nurse in
designer gear. And as for the last dozen weeks here…’
Amelia sniffed. ‘You could at least have made some kind of effort.’
‘As could you!’ Elly fired back at her, launching out of her chair and stabbing
her stiff forefinger into Amelia’s chest. ‘Time after time you flew fifty-five hundred
miles LA to London and not once did you manage the extra hundred and fifty to
come see her in Rotherham.’ To her own disgust tears threatened and her voice
caught as she tried to finish. ‘Mum collected every scrap of information about you,
and every trip of yours to London she’d ask me if you were going to pop in for a
cuppa and a chat, and every time she’d invent all sorts of excuses for you, why you
couldn’t possibly travel “so far” to see her.’ She angrily swiped the tears away with
the back of her hand. ‘Every time broke her heart a little more. Well you can’t have a
cuppa or a chat with her now, you can’t say thank you for all the sacrifices she made
for you, but you can at least look at her and say goodbye.’
‘Don’t leave me!’ Amelia begged as Elly headed for the door, but was ignored.
Leon popped his head round. ‘OK now?’
Amelia drew in a deep breath. ‘Let’s get this done and get out of here.’
‘Uh-uh… ward rounds next for a bit of glad-handing and publicity photos, then
hospital radio. Can’t miss an opportunity like this.’
She closed her eyes and took a deep breath. ‘OK.’ Her voice was shaky.
‘Remind me: which side of the bed?’
***
Page 5 of 16

Saying Goodbye

The nurses had a coffee break while they listened to the hospital radio
interview with Amelia Forrester. Alys selected another chocolate biscuit and
surveyed the group. Most of them were closer to Alys’ mother’s age than her own.
There were comments along the lines of ‘oh yes, do you remember the bit when…’
and ‘I really thought she’d marry Simon Barton after that film, they looked so good
together.’
‘She’s old news,’ Alys said dismissively, ‘hasn’t been in a decent film for
donkeys’ years – or should that be ‘never been in a decent film’? My Mum watched
her films when I was a toddler; people want different things now.’
‘Oh, that’s not true!’ Sister Pritchard exclaimed. ‘Her films can still make me
cry.’
Alys snorted biscuit crumbs. ‘Cry? From laughter maybe, they’re hilarious
they’re so bad. Let’s face it, she only got parts because she was young and
photogenic. After that facelift a decade ago she got some B movie parts but it’s
obvious she’s middle-aged. I don’t expect she’ll be around at all much longer.’
‘But there are plenty of older actresses making films and TV series.’
‘Yes, but they can act; Amelia Forrester never could.’
As Amelia had never even been nominated for any awards, and they couldn’t
bring to mind any recent films, they couldn’t really dispute Alys’ claims.
‘You all complain about social media and the celebrity culture now,’ she
continued, ‘but apart from the technology, do you really believe things were any
different back then?’
The debate quickly fizzled out. There was a general feeling of sadness – and
some resentment towards Alys – as they contemplated the emptiness of Hollywood
glamour, the illusions they all fell for.
Page 6 of 16

Saying Goodbye

***
Late that afternoon the visitors emerged into the hospital car park. Amelia
gave her PA instructions to have her car collect her from her mother’s house at 8pm
and to ensure they had a table booked in their hotel for 8:30pm. ‘And I don’t trust
British cooking: check the chef knows how to make a proper Caesar salad and tell
him no extra oil on my grilled chicken.’ It was getting harder and harder to maintain
her slender figure.
She walked over to join Elly. ‘That’s yours?’ Amelia was surprised: she’d
expected an old rust-bucket of a car, not the nearly new Ford Focus Elly had
unlocked.
‘Motability scheme pays for it, so that I could get Mum out and about.’ She
sighed with the realisation that was one more problem looming for her. ‘I suppose it
will have to go back now; I’d better pick up a bus timetable. And I’ll lose my carer’s
allowance too, so it’s shitty job here I come, since thanks to you and Mum I have no
qualifications and no experience.’
Amelia clicked the seatbelt in. ‘You always did like buses.’
‘Really? I don’t know what planet you and Mum lived on but it sure as hell
wasn’t the same one as the rest of us.’ She carefully reversed out of the parking bay
and headed for the exit. ‘I used the bus because Mum was always too busy ferrying
you around to your dance classes and your elocution lessons and the hairdresser
and god knows where else to leave any time to take me anywhere.’ She expertly
slotted into the busy A-road traffic and drew up at red lights at the crossroads. She
looked round at her sister. ‘Then, of course, you finally passed your driving test at
the third attempt after – I forget, how many lessons was it? – so the car became
yours and it was you who couldn’t spare five minutes to give me a lift anywhere. Not
Page 7 of 16

Saying Goodbye

even to go and get the weekly shop when Mum became too ill to see to any of the
household stuff.’
‘Well of course I needed the car! Of course I was busy! My career was just
taking off.’
‘And take off is exactly what you did, never mind my exams were coming up.
Took off all the way to America.’ Elly’s jaw clenched at the memory of those times, of
the excitement and pride she had felt when her teachers were convinced she was
heading high academically, followed by the devastating news that she had no
choice, that she was stuck exactly where she was for years, maybe decades, to
come. Her life was over before it had even begun.
The lights changed and she ground into first gear before pulling away. Elly
tried to call on her mindfulness training to calm down.
Amelia looked around critically at the preponderance of charity shops, pubs,
bookmakers and low-end stores. ‘Still a dump round here, then.’
Elly bristled at the criticism. ‘It’s been a struggle for many people with the
decline of the main industries. But these are good, honest folk and we get by as best
we can. It’s still preferable to the fantasy world of Hollywood.’ They crawled along a
bit further in the rush hour traffic among the downtown workers heading back to
suburbs like this, eager for their homes and families. ‘Anyway, even if it is a “dump”,
it’s one I could have got us out of if I’d ever had the chance of a career. And it would
have been a good career with an Oxford degree under my belt.’
‘Come off it! Mum could never have afforded to send you to that poncey
college you wanted to go to.’
‘We’d have managed if I won a scholarship, which my teachers were positive I
would. Or if you cared enough for your sister to ever think of helping out financially.’
Page 8 of 16

Saying Goodbye
Elly glanced across at Amelia; she was casually inspecting her flawless – and no
doubt fake – nails. ‘Own up: how much did you earn while I should have been
studying for my A-levels?’
‘Mum must have told you how often I offered to help if I had any cash spare.’
Amelia put her hand on Elly’s arm but was flicked off like a fly.
‘Don’t touch me when I’m driving;’ Elly’s voice was biting, ‘it’s distracting.’ She
pulled up at yet another set of lights that were against them. ‘I know we never saw
any help actually coming our way. Ever.’
Amelia slumped back in her seat. ‘You have no idea how expensive it was for
me back then. If I was to land the big parts I had to live in the right area, be seen in
the right places, wearing the right clothes, dining in the best restaurants where the
people who mattered would see me and remember me.’ She tossed he hair back
over her shoulder. ‘And since then I’ve had to maintain that lifestyle.’
‘You’ve done that all right. Not a very positive outcome from it, though.’
Rain started falling as Elly turned off the High Street towards their estate of
Victorian houses, built during the height of the Industrial Revolution when coal mines
and ironworks brought wealth and a rapidly increasing population to the ancient
Yorkshire minster town. The drizzle quickly became a torrent and the louring clouds
matched her dark mood.
‘You don’t understand, Elly. I’d never land another part if I was seen to be
dropping my standards. I don’t like it any more than you do, but it’s all about
appearances.’
‘No, you were never one to abide by the Micawber Principle,’ she said drily.
‘What?’
‘Or to even know what it is. Or to know when you’re heading towards Skid
Page 9 of 16

Saying Goodbye
Row.’
Amelia shuddered; she’d got lost once and ended up driving through that
neighbourhood. For all the colour the local artistic community was bringing to the
area, the sight of the huge population of vagrants was vivid in her mind. Regular
nightmares involving poverty plagued her and disturbed every waking hour too.
Elly enjoyed her discomfiture but didn’t comment. She navigated through
streets that became wider as they left a run-down commercial district behind. The
houses here had driveways so nose to tail parking at the roadside was replaced by
graceful trees either side of the avenues they passed through. She eventually drove
between shoulder height brick pillars, the open wrought iron gates in sad need of a
lick of paint. She pulled up to the side of their house and engaged the handbrake,
got out of the car and headed for the front door.
Amelia followed her into their childhood home, lingering as she shut the front
door and the memories flooded back. She remembered how, on sunny days, the
stained-glass quarter light of the door sent rainbow colours down across the black
and white tiles of the hallway, the diamond pattern edged in a narrow border of
columbines. She’d get home from school to the smell of fresh baking and their
mother wanting to know every detail of her day. Today she saw just the dust motes
dancing in the air and the dullness of the unpolished bannister rail. Everywhere she
looked seemed shabby and neglected. And so small and dark; it might be large by
British standards but was claustrophobic when compared with her LA home.
The kettle clicked off, the sound bringing her out of her reverie, and she
followed Elly into the kitchen at the back of the house. It looked out onto a long
garden, now full of weeds and long grass. Their mother had loved her roses, now
almost invisible. No doubt the once carefully tended vegetable plot at the end had
Page 10 of 16

Saying Goodbye

fared no better, judging by the state of the shed which was leaning drunkenly against
the back wall, partially blocking the wooden gate which gave access to a back lane.
‘Do you still drink tea or does it have to be coffee these days?’ Elly asked. ‘If
so, you’re out of luck.’
‘Just water, thanks.’ Amelia ran a wondering hand over the formica-topped
table. ‘Nothing’s changed, not even the appliances. How can you live like this? This
kitchen should have been ripped out and refitted decades ago.’
‘My goodness! You are capable of seeing something from someone else’s
point of view then.’ She poured a glass of water and dumped it on the table. ‘There’s
been a lot Mum and I would have liked to change, but “like” and “able” are two very
different beasts when money’s tight and one’s time is taken up with a very
demanding invalid.’ She slid out a metal-framed, plastic-seated chair and sat at the
table with a large mug of builders’ strength tea. ‘First on the list would have been the
roof and guttering, then rewiring to modern standards, then the plumbing and
heating. But I suppose the new owners will do that.’
Amelia was confused. ‘What new owners?’
‘I’m guessing you’ll want your half of the house’s value now Mum’s dead, eh?
So I’ll have to put it on the market.’ She took a slurp of tea. ‘And if you want to talk,
sit down: I can’t keep looking up to you.’ She laughed a little to herself at the thought
of looking up to Amelia in any sense of the words.
Amelia inspected a chair carefully before sitting gingerly, right on the edge.
‘Actually, Elly, no, you don’t have to do that. I’m happy for it to pass to you.’
Elly was only slightly surprised; after all, Amelia would have no idea how
much house values had rocketed since the 1980s. She would probably be thinking
that it wouldn’t be worth much in its current state and Elly suspected Amelia wanted
Page 11 of 16

Saying Goodbye

the leverage for something else she wanted. She had a shrewd idea what that
something else was but it suited her to play along. ‘I suppose I could try for a
mortgage so I could get the work done and take in lodgers for a bit of income.’ She
could see Amelia’s brain working frantically, trying to suss how to get the
conversation round to what she wanted. ‘Or maybe I’ll sell up and finally go to
university, get a degree and a proper career.’
Amelia smoothed down the fabric of her skirt and said, in her little girl voice
that grated so on Elly’s ears, ‘If you did that, we’d have to dispose of the house
contents I suppose.’
‘I suppose we would.’ Elly paused. Amelia was holding her breath. ‘Not that
we have anything of any real value here.’
‘No,’ Amelia agreed quickly. Too quickly. ‘I’m sure the furniture could go in an
auction, if it’s not worm-eaten by now,’ she said. ‘And I wouldn’t expect anything from
that either,’ she added, ‘as that would help a little with your expenses.’ She put a
hand over her sister’s and looked up through her lashes. ‘But I would like a few
mementoes to take back to LA.’
Elly patted Amelia’s hand then sat back to take another sip of tea before
responding. ‘A few of our mother’s personal things, you mean.’ She found it quite
comical that Amelia should think the ploys she used on men would work on her, but
it was progressing just how she wanted so kept a straight face and a sympathetic
tone.
‘Yes. Just something to remember her by, you know?’ Amelia twirled a strand
of hair.
‘Oh yes, I know exactly what you mean. A few trinkets, perhaps.’ Amelia
looked startled and Elly found it hard not to laugh out loud. ‘Maybe some of that
Page 12 of 16

Saying Goodbye
costume jewellery you used to love playing with?’
‘Yes! That would be perfect.’ Amelia fiddled with her water glass. ‘Mum and I
often got it out together, so that would remind me of many happy hours with her.’
‘Come on then,’ Elly said, standing up and going to the door, ‘it’s all up in her
bedroom still.’
They went upstairs together and into the largest bedroom; it looked over the
front garden and road, and had a good view of the neighbours’ houses. Their mother
had loved keeping an eye on everyone’s activities from behind the nets draped in
front of the wide window.
‘I think what annoyed Mum most about being bedridden was that she couldn’t
be nosy any more.’ Elly pulled the net curtain to one side and scanned up and down
the road. ‘Go on then,’ she said over her shoulder, ‘you know where the jewellery
boxes are.’
Amelia reached up to the top shelf of the old mahogany wardrobe and took
out the first two of the six large boxes. She dithered, wondering where to sit down
with them. ‘What happened to Mum’s bed and dressing table?’
‘I needed the space. We were loaned an NHS motorised air bed and had
shelves of medical supplies.’ She turned and leant against the window ledge. ‘Those
went back when Mum was admitted to hospital, of course. You’ll have to sit on the
floor or take them down to the lounge.’ She went to the wardrobe and put the other
boxes on the faded pink and cream carpet. Suddenly tired of the game, the pretence,
she said, ‘Look, why mess about? Take the lot, I don’t want them.’
Amelia couldn’t believe her luck. Was it really going to be this easy? ‘Don’t
you want to keep any of it?’
Elly snorted. ‘You might have noticed, I’m not really into wearing jewellery…
Page 13 of 16

Saying Goodbye
costume or otherwise.’ She could hardly hold back the smirk. She had always had
the measure of her sister. ‘I’m sure you’d hate to see it just thrown out or going to a
charity shop.’
‘I’ll put the boxes in the hall ready for my pick up, then,’ Amelia said faintly,
with only a faint blush betraying her.
Elly knew what Amelia would be thinking: that their mother had never told Elly
the truth about their father’s real “profession”, and what had happened to him during
that last jewellery heist that had gone so horribly wrong. And she’d be right, their
mother had never breathed a word about it. Elly had been just four years old when it
happened, but little pitchers have big ears.
Amelia had been twelve at the time and their mother’s confidante. They had
both thought it would be easy to hide the facts from Elly, to invent a whole other life
for their father and have Elly believe it. Ha! As if. She’d always known far more than
they ever did.
‘Yes, you do that,’ Elly said nonchalantly. ‘I’ll give you a hand. Then we can sit
down and discuss funeral arrangements.’
***
The car had arrived as Amelia had ordered. Elly stood in the porchway,
waving goodbye to the sister she knew she would never see again, knowing full well
that she would come up with some excuse not to attend the funeral service. She’d
probably be back in LA within twenty-four hours.
If today had been an audition Amelia would have failed quite dismally, she
mused. Or was she being too harsh? After all, she’d known Amelia and her ways
and wiles intimately for many years. But Amelia had never seen other people clearly,
never thought about anyone but herself and how to get what she wanted. She had
Page 14 of 16

Saying Goodbye

no more idea now than when they were children about what motivated people, what
character and personality were all about., except in so far as they impinged on her
own desires. Which was why she couldn’t act, Elly thought as she shut the door on
the receding taillights and dismal evening.
Her sister was really as much a victim of poor parenting as she had been.
Their mother’s ambitions for her elder daughter had blinded her to the harm she was
doing by not letting Amelia experience the harsh realities of life. She felt sorry for
Amelia in a way, thinking she could have been quite a nice person if their mother
hadn’t given her such a skewed impression of herself. She’d never really grown up
and it was probably all too late now.
Would Amelia be clever enough to sell those jewels without getting caught?
Maybe, maybe not; she wasn’t concerned either way. She just felt enormous relief
that the remaining evidence of her father’s guilt was finally out of her house. Yes, her
house. She had previously arranged for the family solicitor, an old family friend after
all these years, to pop in that evening and see the sisters together about the will. He
had recorded Amelia’s instructions before she left, duly witnessed by a neighbour,
that the house was to be solely Elly’s.
And the beauty of it was that Amelia had left convinced that she had pulled a
fast one! She’d find out soon enough what a small percentage of her haul was what
she thought it was…
Neither Amelia or her mother had known about the “lessons” from her father
when he was babysitting her. Before their father was shot dead Elly had never
minded about her sister’s activities; she had adored him and loved their private hours
together. He had been so chuffed when she could accurately separate real and fake
diamonds at the age of three, and by the time of his death could name every type of
Page 15 of 16

Saying Goodbye

stone and give him a valuation estimate, both legitimate and via a fence. Her
memory and understanding were sharp then and had remained so. Young as she
had been, she could recall the time her mother had retrieved the stolen items from
his lock up, and she had eavesdropped every conversation between her mother and
sister as they grew up.
‘Well, Mum,’ she said into the evening stillness, ‘you always wanted Amelia to
have them all and now she has, real and fake. Did you ever know Dad funded his
love of horse racing and the dogs with most of them? Or did you think it was only the
mortgage he paid off?’
She looked up and noticed the first stars, shining through gaps between the
fast retreating clouds. Raindrops still dripped from the gutters and leaves, glistening
when caught in the light from the porch. Everywhere looked and smelled clean and
ready for a fresh start in the morning.
She leaned back against the front door and ran her hand down the doorframe.
‘Yes, my house. At last.’ She’d get the best price possible by whipping the place into
shape before selling it, and then a new life beckoned. Or she could get a degree
locally, take in a few fellow students as lodgers, and then maybe a Masters among
the dreaming spires of Oxford. Lots of options and whatever she did it would be her
choice, no one else to consult or compromise for.
Freedom. She’d waited a long time for it and had no intention of any family
ties shackling her ever again. Goodbye to the old life, and hello to the new, whatever
it might bring.

Page 16 of 16


