The aroma of cucumbers wafted up the stairs and found its way to the bedroom that Zoie
shared with her aunt Erin, a twelve-year-old shoplifter and pot smoker who sometimes crawled out the
window at midnight, returning at dawn. Cucumbers at two o’clock in the afternoon meant finger
sandwiches. And finger sandwiches meant visitors. Grownup visitors. And that meant kids were to stay
scarce.
Outside the open window, rain poured out of the sky, thick and warm and smelling of summer.
Zoie looked at the rain gauge and thermometer that her grandfather had installed for her. She wanted
to be a meteorologist, or maybe a geologist. Maybe both. Definitely a scientist. She wasn’t sure. She
was only eight years old. She still had time to decide.
She watched the rainwater roll down the sloping roof and pour into a gutter. Leaves and twigs
rode the current, some disappearing down the gutter, others forming a dam. Three inches of rain so far
today. And it was still ninety-two degrees. This place was nothing like the New Mexican desert she knew
so well. Here, it seemed to rain all the time. And when it rained, it was impossible to be alone, never
mind finding a quiet place to read.
Zoie picked up the paperback book that moments before she had rescued from the bathroom
floor, eager to read it. She took a slow step into the hallway. Rain and the whir of a box fan. She sniffed
at the air and listened for adult voices. Her grandmother was moving about in the kitchen, singing and
clanking plates. Now, the aroma of fresh brewed coffee reached her nose. She heard two more voices.
Aunt Noreen, not a nice person and difficult to hide from. Aunt Joan, loud and pushy. They lived in the
house, too, and made reading a book in peace impossible.
As she moved down the hallway, the floorboards creaked. She paused. Every floorboard in this
old house creaked, every single one of them. Some groaned. The one in front of her mother’s bedroom

door squeaked like a toy duck. She took another slow step, and then another, until she was at the top of
the stairs. She stood there listening, still gripping the paperback.
Her grandmother was singing loudly now, one of her usual Broadway tunes. The house dog, a
one-eyed Pekingese, barked at something somewhere. The sound of rain filled the rooms. Everything
was sticky. She decided to make her move.
She slipped down the stairs and around the corner and into the living room, undetected. There,
she noted a few changes. The coffee table had been cleared of debris and was now covered in doilies.
The TV was missing. A batik curtain covered the bookcase. There were no ashtrays.
“Well, Mother,” she heard Joan say, “you should have asked him when you had the
opportunity.”
“Really now,” Grandmother replied. “it won’t be the end of the world if he prefers tea to
coffee.”
Zoie heard their footsteps headed her way. She ducked into the coat closet, not an easy task
given the heap of things piled up on the closet floor. Decades of not fully dried paint kept the door from
closing completely, leaving it forever ajar like other such doors in the house. Through the narrow
opening, she could see anyone who came into the room from the hallway.
And here came Joan, wearing a long, cotton gauze tunic printed in brightly colored paisleys. She
wore nothing underneath it. She never did. Many people complained. Joan didn’t care. Strings of red,
yellow, and orange beads rattled against each other as she stomped across the floor in her bare feet.
“Why are we doing this, anyway?” Joan asked. “What’s the point?”
“Because this is what we do,” Grandmother replied.
“Since when?” Joan shot back. “Honestly, mother, I find it quite hypocritical, this whole thing.”

Through the narrow opening, Zoie could see her grandmother, resplendent in a blue and green
floral dress, carrying a tray to the coffee table. Joan kept complaining, even as Grandmother walked
away.
Zoie sighed. She had two options now. She could try to exit through the front door, onto the
porch, and maybe find a quiet spot out there to read. Or she could try to get back upstairs, unnoticed.
Just then, the front door opened and closed. She heard footsteps moving around the room, then
approaching the coat closet. She detected the scent of her mother’s perfume. There was a thump just
beyond the closet door. She forced herself into the recesses of the debris pile, onto an old boot jammed
into a back corner.
“Mom,” she heard her brother George say, “there’s nothing to do. I’m bored.”
“Go play with Benny,” her mother replied.
“He’s a baby,” George said. “He doesn’t understand comic books.”
“Well play something else. Play cards. Or checkers,” her mother said.
“He can’t even play Candyland the right way,” George replied.
“Look,” her mother said, “Father Gormley will be here any minute. So, go upstairs and find
something to do for a couple of hours. And keep Benny occupied. And keep it down. Don’t wake baby
Liam.”
Benny was Zoie’s four-year-old uncle. A four-year-old uncle had been a difficult idea to accept.
He wasn’t fully potty trained. And he still liked baby food, and, according to a woman at the
supermarket, he was only recently weaned. The other baby was Joan’s. He wasn’t really talking yet. But
he was a biter.
Ten-year-old George was not into babysitting. But on a rainy day in the middle of a hot southern
summer, with the TV gone and the adults having a get together, there weren’t many entertainment

A Quiet Place to Read

options. Zoie could hear her brother groaning and dragging his feet as he receded into the guts of the
house, no doubt returning to the bedroom he shared with baby Benny.
There was just enough light entering the closet for Zoie to see the title of the rescued
paperback. She moved closer to the crack and held the book up to a narrow band of light. On the cover
was a drawing of an empty desk facing an open window. The title “A Room of One’s Own” had gotten
her attention. She wanted her own room again, filled with every kind of book.
In this rickety old house, there was little else for a kid to do but read or get in trouble, and she
had read almost every book in the house. Before, when they lived on the air force base, her parents had
bought her lots of books. She had no idea where all those books were now. For that matter, she had no
idea where any of her things were. Dolls and games and clothes and books and a collection of rocks and
a geology kit and a microscope. Everything was gone. The only books she had now were foundlings,
except for the ones her mother let her buy at the Saint Francis Thrift Store, ten for a dollar.
“Well, here are the watercress sandwiches,” she heard her grandmother saying.
“This is too much food,” Joan said. “You always overdo it, Mother.”
It fascinated Zoie how everyone in the house called Grandmother by a different name. Joan
called her “Mother” (not in a warm way) and Erin called her “Lady” (upsetting everyone). Noreen called
her “Mom.” Another aunt who lived far away called her Momster. And Zoie’s mother called her
“Mumsy”.
“I will not have you picking a fight with Father Gormley!” Grandmother was saying. “Now is not
the time for you to split hairs over doctrinal differences. This visit is not about you. This is about
Noreen.”
“I know that,” Joan said, “but you cannot possibly believe that you can just ignore these
doctrinal differences, Mother. This is at the core of all that is wrong with the church and the people in it.
Like you.”

A Quiet Place to Read

“I will not stand here and listen to you cast aspersions on other people’s beliefs,” Grandmother
said. “So, you either act as though you are a respectable young woman, or you leave the house this
instant. This is not your afternoon to destroy.”
“Destroy? Hah!” Joan shouted. “I’m trying to save Noreen from a life of inequality and misogyny.
Why should she promise to obey a man? Especially that man. I can’t believe this is happening. I just
can’t. Noreen is only seventeen!”
“Oh, just stop it!” Grandmother snapped.
“Oh, for god’s sake, Joan!” Zoie’s mother shouted from the kitchen, “just leave it alone. It’s not
your wedding. You have no say whatsoever.”
Joan retreated to the kitchen, stomping her feet along the way. Now, there were more voices
coming from the kitchen, and they were all talking at once. Typical, Zoie thought. They never stop
talking. They make everything hard. Reading. Writing. Just trying to ask a question. So much noise and
chaos and clutter. On base, everything had been neat and clean, the lawns manicured. There were
things to do. Pools and playgrounds. Tennis and basketball courts. A movie theater. Now, her father was
lost in a war and they had to live here, in this house where everything was shabby and disheveled. Even
now, with a priest coming to visit, the house wasn’t clean. From her vantage point in the closet, she
could see the dirty dishes that her grandmother had shoved under the sofa a few days before.
“Quick, quick!” someone shouted. “He’s coming up the steps!”
There was a flurry of activity and then the doorbell rang. Grandmother sprinted across the living
room and opened the door just as a bolt of lightning lit up the sky. A loud boom of thunder followed
instantly.
“That was close,” Father Gormley said.
“Oh dear, do come in, Father,” Grandmother said.
“Thank you, Elizabeth, very good to see you.”

A Quiet Place to Read

“Let me take your umbrella,” Grandmother, said. “Would you like to take off your shoes? I see
they are absolutely soaked through.”
Another flurry of activity as Father Gormley was attended to, his shoes taken away for drying
and cleaning, his socks, as well. He chose iced coffee as his beverage and ate a few cucumber and
watercress sandwiches and admired the cheese and fruit plate.
Zoie stayed quiet in the closet, listening to the boring chatter and exchange of information
about this and that person, and then some questions about why dear Erin hadn’t been attending mass
or catechism, questions which Grandmother avoided by telling Father Gormley that soon it would be
time for another baptism because aunt Annie was expecting again. And then Father Gormley remarked
that they were looking for volunteers to help with cleaning the church and general upkeep.
“I was a wardrobe mistress once,” Grandmother said. “for a Shakespearean theater company. I
can handle the vestments.”
“Now that, I say, is credentialing,” Father Gormley said.
Zoie didn’t fully understand the conversation. But she knew that cleaning was not something
her Grandmother would volunteer to do.
“Now Noreen,” Father Gormley was saying. “You say you want a Latin mass. Why would that
be? Your husband to be is an Episcopalian. Has he an opinion on the matter? And what of his family?”
“You see? I told you, Noreen,” Joan interrupted.
“And I told you,” Grandmother said, “that this is not your wedding, Joan. You already had your
wedding. And look how that turned out. Now just be quiet.”
Another bolt of lightning lit up the sky, the crack of thunder so loud Zoie could feel it. And then
there was shouting all over the house.
“Oh dear,” Grandmother said. “It looks like the power is out.”
“I’ll go check the fuse box,” Zoie’s mother said.

A Quiet Place to Read

“Father,” Noreen said, “I’ve been planning my wedding since I was a child. I’ve always wanted to
have a Latin mass. You’ve met James. I know he’s Episcopalian, but he’s easy going. His Latin is not
completely absent.”
“Young James I do know, yes,” Father Gormley said. “And I know his mother. Indeed, the few
relatives he has, I know. This is a small village, Noreen. Fewer than four thousand souls. His people are
on the board of Saint Stephen’s. They might find it too much, a Latin Mass. Think of others, not just
yourself.”
“But I want a High Latin Mass – missa solemnis.” Noreen insisted.
“You mean with three priests? Are you mad?” Father Gormley said. “It’s only the Low Mass we
can offer, Noreen. I’m the only Priest for three parishes. If that is what you want, well then, you’re going
to have to go elsewhere. Springfield perhaps. That’s a lot of paperwork.”
“I see,” Noreen said.
“Are you sure it’s only a High Mass that’ll satisfy you, Noreen?” Father Gormley asked.
Before she could answer, another bolt of lightning lit up the room, this one brighter and more
determined, and the thunder that came with it seemed to shake the whole house. All talking stopped.
Zoie inched her way towards the front of the closet, trying to get a glimpse through the crack.
She could see her grandmother returning to the living room with a candle, not that the room needed it.
Now the sound of sirens racing through town added to the overall sense that something was about to
happen.
“Oh dear,” her grandmother said. “I hope no one is hurt.”
“The whole neighborhood is out of power,” Zoie’s mother said. “I called your office, Father. The
church hasn’t been affected.”
“This rain!” grandmother said. “Oh, I do hope you are okay, Father. Is there anything I can get
you?”

A Quiet Place to Read

The adults started chattering about the weather and the rain and the rooftops and how hot it
was, and how the mosquitos were so bad this year. Zoie found all this chatter boring, and fake. Everyone
was talking differently, just because the priest was here. Noreen was never this polite. Joan was never
this quiet. Grandmother was never this concerned about anyone else’s comfort.
Zoie was bored now and wanted to leave the closet. But she couldn’t just burst out. She couldn’t
let them see her. She couldn’t be found there, hiding, either. She would get in trouble for something.
That’s how it was in this house. No matter which way she turned, someone was yelling at her about
something. She didn’t like living there, in that house. It was always messy. There was no dinner time, no
bath time, no bedtime. Things just seemed to happen. Sometimes, her aunts would get into physical
fights. Hair pulling. Scratching. But mostly, constant bickering and complaining were the sounds of life in
the house. Sometimes, she wondered if it would be better if she just crawled out the window and
disappeared like aunt Erin did.
She looked again at the book, which she still held tightly in her hand. All she wanted to do was
read. But it was too dark in the closet.
“Now, Noreen,” she heard Father Gormley say, “prior to any further discussions of a Latin High
Mass and any dispensations, we need to discuss the Catechism for you and James. As you know, the
marriage needs to start out on the right foot, all expectations clear. Including how to bring up the
children.”
Then Zoie heard something. A loud thumpity thump. Then laughter. Then barking and more
laughter. And then the sound of feet pounding across the upstairs floors.
“What is that noise?” Grandmother asked.
“Just the boys,” Zoie’s mother said.
The noise got louder and louder and more frenetic. Then it came flying down the staircase. She
saw baby Benny, naked and screeching, run into the living room. He was followed by three dogs, Joan’s

A Quiet Place to Read

toddler son Liam, also naked, and Zoie’s brother George, who was laughing so hard all he could do was
snort. Benny was screaming at the top of his lungs, “I’ll get you! I’ll get you!” He had something in his
hand and was waving it around as he cackled with laughter.
Zoie poked her nose in the crack, almost moving the door as she tried to get a better look.
“Whose dog is that?” she heard someone say.
Then there was a loud collective gasp. That’s when the adults started shouting.
“Put that thing down!” Zoie heard her mother yell. “Benny, I mean it. Put that thing down!”
“Oh my god, Mother!” Joan shouted. “Is that your vibrator?”
With a shriek of glee, baby Benny threw the vibrator into the air and the house Pekingese
managed to grab it. George and baby Benny were both shrieking with laughter.
“Give it! Give it!” baby Benny shouted as he tried to wrench the thing from the dog’s mouth.
Zoie pressed closer to the door, able to see aunt Joan’s attempt to intervene. Benny pushed her
away.
“No!” he shouted. “He likes the buzzing thing!”
“Drop it! Drop it!” Joan shouted. But the dog escaped and ran off, followed by the entire
entourage.
The living room fell silent, and the sound of rain invaded the space. She heard Father Gormley
clear his throat. Her Grandmother mumbled something.
“Of all the things I have seen, Mother,” Joan said. “What? Do you, just, leave that thing lying
around the house?”
Silence. The living room remained quiet for another moment. Zoie listened to the rain. She had
never heard rain pound this hard before. And the living room had never been quieter, not with people in
it. She had no idea what had happened, not really. But somehow, she knew that it was going to affect

A Quiet Place to Read

her. She just couldn’t imagine how. At least she had a new book to look forward to, and a window to
escape through.


