Three  hours  north  of  Atlanta  on  I-­‐85,  somewhere  in  South  Carolina,  Carl  kept  
the  radio  low  while  Dee  snored  in  the  back  seat.  Tranh  sat  beside  him,  tight-­‐lipped.  
A  year  earlier  they  had  driven  in  the  opposite  direction  toward  Emory  in  a  rented  
van  filled  with  fresh  clothes  while  Tranh  turned  Kleenexes  into  sodden  pulp  at  the  
thought  her  daughter  was  leaving  home.    Now  they  were  returning,  in  a  station  
wagon  jammed  with  the  stale  and  stained  jumble  of  a  hastily  emptied  dorm  room.      
Carl  gripped  the  steering  wheel  and  wished  the  lane  markers  flashing  in  the  
headlights  against  the  midnight  blackness  would  erase  the  memory  of  the  dresser  
drawer  he  emptied  into  the  dumpster  on  the  way  out.    An  empty  vodka  bottle,  a  pair  
of  silk  handcuffs,  and  a  pack  of  flavored  condoms.    Carl  snapped  off  the  radio  when  
Steely  Dan  came  on.    Those  weekends  at  the  college  sure  didn’t  turn  out  the  way  he  
had  planned.      
A  month  later  they  were  sitting  in  a  dimly  lit  office  furnished  with  beige  
corduroy  upholstered  chairs  and  end  tables  bare  except  for  strategically  placed  
boxes  of  tissues.  Dr.  Naomi  Sharp  sat  in  front  of  her  three  framed  diplomas  and  
peered  over  her  steel-­‐rimmed  glasses,  her  black  hair  pulled  back  in  a  bun  and  her  
colorless  lips  drawn  in  a  tight  line.      On  the  ride  over,  Dee  was  making  cracks  about  
Miss  Gulch  in  the  Wizard  of  Oz  and  Carl  smiled  sideways  to  Tranh.    Counseling  had  
been  his  idea,  and  lacking  any  referrals,  he  had  chosen  a  female  name  at  random  
from  the  directory.  Dee  had  shrugged  at  the  suggestion.  “Whatever.  Daddy’s  so  
noble.    He  doesn’t  just  want  to  come  out  and  say  I’m  fucked  up  and  should  see  a  
shrink.    So  we  can  all  go  and  feel  sorry  for  ourselves  together.”  
“Try  to  think  of  your  best  memory  together,”  said  Dr.  Sharp  to  no  one  in  
particular,  in  a  voice  like  an  answering  machine.  
Carl  and  Tranh  looked  at  Dee,  and  Dee  looked  at  the  picture  on  the  far  wall.  
After  a  minute  Carl  said,  “I  think  you  must  have  been  four.    We  used  to  go  for  walks  
sometimes,  over  on  the  university  grounds.    We  still  lived  in  the  apartment  then.    
One  day  –  it  had  to  be  summer  because  there  weren’t  any  students  around  –  we  
passed  this  bush  and  heard  thrashing  inside.    I  looked  in,  and  there  was  this  bird,  its  
legs  all  tangled  with  string,  hanging  upside  down  from  one  of  the  twigs.    I  pulled  it  
out  and  we  untangled  the  string,  and  it  flew  right  off.    That  was  a  golden  moment.    
The  sun  was  shining,  and  I  felt  like  a  hero.    Don’t  you  remember  that?”  
Dee  looked  at  the  ceiling.    “That  was  the  big  thing  for  you?    I  don’t  remember  
that.”    She  waited  for  a  minute  and  eyed  the  therapist.    “It’s  my  turn  now?    Well,  for  
me,  it  had  to  be  the  sex.”    Carl  and  Tranh  drew  their  breaths  in  unison.  
“Oh  surely  you  must  remember  that,  Daddy.    Those  nights  when  Mommy  was  
with  Grandma  at  the  hospital,  or  after  she  went  to  sleep,  you’d  come  into  my  room.  
First  you’d  feel  up  my  Barbies,  then  you’d  feel  me  up.”    
Carl  jumped  up.  “What  the  hell  .  .  .    what  are  you  doing?”    He  looked  back  and  
forth  at  Tranh  and  Dr.  Sharp.    “You  know  I  never  .  .  .    why  are  you  saying  this?      Look  
what  you’ve  done.”    Tranh’s  eyes  glistened  and  she  clenched  her  teeth.    Carl  shouted  
again,  “Say  that  isn’t  true!    You  know  that  isn’t  true!”  
Dee  giggled.    “Got  you  going,  didn’t  I?    Somebody  needed  to  liven  up  this  
party.    But  maybe  it  would  have  been  better  that  way.  Then  we’d  all  be  getting  along  
and  we  wouldn’t  need  to  be  coming  here  to  get  in  touch  with  our  feelings,  would  
we?”  
Tranh  wiped  her  eyes  and  choked,  “Dirty  mouth  girl.”  
Carl  eased  back  into  his  seat,  still  breathing  hard,  and  looked  helplessly  at  Dr.  
Sharp.  “You  see?    You  see  what  we  have  to  deal  with  here?”  
Dee  smirked  as  the  adults  fidgeted.    The  answering  machine  voice  said,    
“Deirdre.    Can  you  help  the  process  today  by  describing  something  true  that  was  
good  at  home?  
“It’s  Dee  now.    Deirdre  was  some  name  Mom  picked  because  she  thought  it  
sounded  French  and  didn’t  know.”    Dee  glared  for  a  minute  and  looked  at  her  nails.  
  “Oh,  everything  was  perfect,  always.  Really.    Grandma  from  Vietnam  would  squat  in  
the  doorway  eating  rice  and  fish  heads  out  of  a  bowl  and  talk  chicken  talk  to  Mom.      
That  was  always  great.    Like  I  could  ever  have  any  friends  over  to  see  that.”      
Tranh  moaned  and  pressed  her  fist  to  her  mouth.    Carl  tried  to  find  the  calm  
voice  he  put  on  when  both  of  them  were  shouting  in  front  of  strangers,    “Dee,  that’s  
enough.    We’ve  been  over  that.  Must  you  always  try  to  be  hurtful?”  
“No  blaming,  Mr.  Wilcox,”  said  Dr.  Sharp,  in  a  tone  that  missed  being  
soothing.    “Now,  Deirdr.  .    Dee,  please  try.    Can  you  think  of  some  good  memory?”  
  Dee  glanced  at  the  couch  and  then  back  at  her  hands.  “When  I  was  little,  
before  things  got  screwed  up,  we  would  watch  TV.    Just  the  three  of  us.    The  
Muppets.    Hawaii  Five-­‐O.    Little  House  on  the  Prairie  was  Daddy’s  favorite.    He  
always  likes  the  old-­‐timey  stuff.”  

  

4  
Carl  fastened  his  gaze  on  the  white  strand  in  Tranh’s  bangs.    How  long  ago  

had  that  been?  Dr.  Sharp  looked  at  the  clock  facing  outward  on  her  desk,  now  
pointing  ten  minutes  to  the  hour,  and  stood  up.    “I  think  we’ve  achieved  some  
communication  here  today.    I  will  see  you  again  in  two  weeks.”  
On  the  ride  home  Tranh  stared  hard  at  the  mass  of  grey  clouds  roiling  over  
the  sunset.      “For  this  we  actually  are  paying  that  witch  a  hundred  an  hour?  We  can  
listen  to  this  crap  for  free.”    She  bit  her  lip  and  looked  back  out  the  window.    “She  
didn’t  bother  to  ask  what  I  remembered.”  
Dee  in  the  back  did  not  look  up  from  her  keypad.    “Maybe  she  could  have  
given  us  a  drink.    That  might  have  gotten  things  going,”  
“That  is  more  of  the  problem  than  the  solution  here,”  said  Carl.    “We’re  all  in  
this  together,  we’re  all  still  a  family,  so  it’s  fair  if  we  all  go  together.”  
“I  already  know  what  Mom  would  have  said.    My  piano  recital,  when  she  
could  brag  to  her  Vietnamese  friends  that  her  daughter  did  something  that  looked  
high-­‐class  American.    Too  bad  I  wasn’t  getting  straight  A’s  like  the  Vo  kids.”  
Carl  slowed  the  Camry  to  8  mph  and  let  the  silent  machine  drift  like  a  boat  
along  the  river  of  swirling  leaves  that  was  Club  Boulevard,  nearly  empty  in  the  dusk.  
The  late  autumn  leaves  overflowed  the  curbs,  with  one  yard  a  solitary  patch  of  green  
framed  by  a  dozen  overstuffed  plastic  bags.    Tranh  glanced  at  Carl  and  narrowed  her  
eyes,  “Are  you  all  right?”  
In  the  back  seat  Dee’s  thumbs  were  flying  as  she  was  texting  a  face  with  the  
tongue  sticking  out  -­‐  if  only  Rob  on  the  other  end  knew  how  close  the  screen  in  her  

  

5  

lap  was  to  where  he  wanted  to  be.    As  the  car  slowed  she  said,  “Daddy,  what  the  fuck  
are  you  doing?”  
“Hey!”  Carl  and  Tranh  shouted  simultaneously.  
Tranh  squirmed  in  her  seat  and  made  a  fist  but  couldn’t  reach  around  the  
seat  back.  “Slap  her!”  she  hissed  at  Carl.  
Carl  gazed  at  the  willow  oak  trunks  sliding  past.    “See,  this  is  how  life  was  a  
hundred,  two  hundred  years  ago.    No  cars,  no  engine  noises.    People  could  only  walk  
or  ride  in  horse-­‐drawn  carriages.    This  was  all  the  faster  people  could  ever  move.    
The  pace  was  calmer,  saner.    People  had  time  to  think,  reflect  on  what  they  were  
doing.”    He  glanced  in  the  mirror  and  saw  Dee  still  hunched  over  her  cell.    “People  
had  time  to  think  about  what  they  said  then  too,”  he  continued.    “No  telephones,  no  
cell  phones,  no  internet.    People  wrote  letters.    On  paper.    And  you  had  a  week  or  
two  between  to  think  about  what  you  really  meant  to  say.    Something  substantial.    
Not  just  oh  muh  gawd  and  punctuation  mark  faces.”  
Dee  glanced  up  and  forced  a  yawn.    “Yeah  yeah,  the  good  old  days.    Nobody  
got  anywhere  or  did  anything,  and  the  streets  were  full  of  horse  shit.”  
She  returned  to  the  keypad  in  her  lap  and  clicked  with  her  thumbs  “OMG  
Daddy’s  losing  it  again.    Back  to  the  log  cabin.”        
That  night  Carl  smoothed  a  sheet  of  graph  paper  on  the  coffee  table  and  
penciled  two  arrows  at  right  angles.    “x  is  to  the  right  and  left,  y  is  up  and  down,”  he  
explained  for  the  dozenth  time.    Dee  looked  at  her  nails  and  down  at  her  blinking  
cell.    It  was  Rob’s  number.    “Can  I  get  this  Daddy?”  

  

6  
Carl  put  on  his  patient  face  and  kept  his  voice  level.    “You  have  a  test  

tomorrow.    They  can  wait  a  few  minutes  and  you  can  too.”      
Carl  returned  to  the  paper  and  drew  a  squiggly  line.    Just  stay  focused  on  the  
equations,  he  thought.    Don’t  let  her  derail  you  with  some  bullshit.    “Any  line,  any  
pattern,  you  can  describe  as  a  function.”  Beside  the  squiggly  line  he  wrote  y  =  f(x).    
“For  any  number  x,  put  it  into  the  function,  and  the  answer  is  y.”    He  glanced  over  
and  Dee  tried  to  look  attentive.  “Now  a  straight  line  is  a  simple  equation.    y  is  just  x  
multiplied  by  something,  with  another  number  added.      The  number  you  multiply  by  
is  the  slope,  the  number  you  add  is  the  y-­‐intercept.”    
Dee  looked  down  at  her  cell  on  the  floor,  vibrating  again.    How  many  times  
had  she  heard  these  words  before?    Slopes  and  intercepts?    She  already  knew  about  
slopes.  In  fourth  grade  a  pig-­‐nosed  girl  with  dirty  fingernails  asked  her  if  she  was  
Chinese.  She  screamed  she  was  born  in  Columbus,  she  was  as  American  as  anyone  
and  ran  home  crying.      The  boys  who  stood  by  the  water  fountain  and  tripped  
anyone  who  tried  to  take  a  drink  pulled  at  the  corners  of  their  eyes  and  called  her  
chinky  and  slope.      
Dee  was  tired  of  answering  no,  her  dad  hadn’t  been  in  the  Army  and  no,  her  
mom  had  not  been  a  bargirl  and  did  not  work  in  a  nail  salon.  Carl  met  Tranh  at  Ohio  
State  when  he  was  an  engineering  student  and  she  worked  in  the  cafeteria.    Dee  had  
her  mother’s  eyes  and  her  father’s  nose  and  mouth.  Every  time  Tranh  called  the  
children  of  her  friends  with  American  husbands  ‘half-­‐half’  Dee’s  skin  crawled.      
“Now  if  you  have  equations  with  higher  powers  of  x,  you  get  curvy  lines.”    
Carl  was  animated  now,  caught  in  the  pure  and  simple  beauty  of  the  math,  and  the  

  

7  

words  were  spilling  out.    Parabolas  and  hyperbolas,  inflection  points  where  the  
curved  lines  changed  direction.    “Now  here’s  the  trick  -­‐  taking  the  derivative  will  
give  you  another  equation,  and  setting  that  to  zero  will  tell  you  where  the  inflection  
points  are.”  
Dee  looked  at  the  symbols  blankly.      The  first  time  she  failed  algebra  in  high  
school  everyone  said  she  was  lazy.    She  had  been  placed  in  advanced  math,  because  
after  all,  it  should  be  easy  for  her.    Everyone  knew  that.    She  just  wasn’t  trying.    All  
the  Chinese  kids  are  good  at  math.    Or  half-­‐Vietnamese,  all  the  same.    
The  curves  Dee  was  thinking  about  weren’t  on  graph  paper.  Once  again  she  
heard  Taylor  Coate’s  reedy  laugh  in  that  geometry  class  in  tenth  grade,  when  he  held  
up  a  straight  edge  along  his  line  of  sight  with  her  standing  in  the  doorway.      Her  face  
burned  as  the  boys  hooted  and  the  girls  –  all  those  fat  girls  who  bounced  when  they  
walked  –  covered  their  mouths  and  snickered.  Was  she  always  going  to  be  as  flat  as  
Mom?  She  had  cried  for  a  week  and  vowed  she  would  show  them  –  show  them  all.  
She  drank  milkshakes  and  shoplifted  creams  from  the  GNC  store,  and  now,  three  
years  later,  she  could  pull  her  shoulders  together  and  make  a  cleavage  line  between  
her  breasts.      
“Dee!  Are  you  listening?”    Daddy’s  voice  cut  through  the  memories.    He  had  
drawn  another  lumpy  curve  and  cross-­‐hatched  the  space  underneath  it.  Then  he  
drew  a  straight  line  just  grazing  the  curve.    “Now  here,  at  point  x.    Say  you  move  just  
the  tiniest  way  along  the  curve,  you  move  over  delta  x  and  up  delta  y.”    He  wrote  the  
letters  with  triangles  in  front  of  them  and  drew  a  thin  strip  down  through  the  cross-­‐
hatched  area.    Dee  knew  where  this  was  going.      She  had  been  through  this  three  

  

8  

times  before  –  twice  in  high  school,  then  at  Emory  with  the  incoherent  Indian  
teaching  assistant  who  was  so  not  hot,  and  now  here  it  was  back  at  home  again.      
Maybe  being  dragged  through  a  year  of  community  college  would  let  her  be  
admitted  to  State.    A  big  deal  for  Daddy  and  even  a  bigger  one  for  Mom.    They  
wouldn’t  just  let  her  scream  that  she  was  stupid  and  didn’t  get  it.  
“It’s  starting  to  rain,”  she  said.  
“Never  mind  that,  just  watch.  See,  if  you  go  one  way,  you  get  the  derivative  of  
the  function.    The  reverse  operation  is  the  antiderivative,  which  is  the  integral.”    Carl  
was  filling  the  sheet  with  capital  and  small  f’s  and  putting  apostrophes  after  some  of  
them.  “You  see  how  it  works?”  
A  sizzling  flash  of  light  and  a  clap  of  thunder  half  a  second  later  made  them  
jump  and  the  lights  flicker.    The  pencil  line  had  skidded  across  the  page  but  Carl  
tried  to  sound  casual.    “That  was  close.    Now  where  were  we?”  
With  the  sound  of  a  shotgun  boom  the  lights  went  out,  and  all  the  
background  noises  were  stilled  -­‐  the  fan,  the  TV  in  the  kitchen,  the  drone  of  the  
refrigerator,  even  the  hum  of  the  electric  clock,  with  hands  now  frozen  in  mid-­‐
second.  “Transformer,”  said  Carl.    Being  able  to  name  a  problem  was  almost  as  good  
as  solving  it.    Using  Dee’s  cell  phone  as  a  flashlight,  Carl  groped  through  the  
darkness  to  the  kitchen,  where  already  Tranh  was  fumbling  with  the  drawers  
looking  for  matches.      They  found  some  votive  candles  and  put  a  pair  on  the  
countertop,  and  Carl  brought  a  handful  of  tapers  back  to  the  living  room  where  Dee  
was  still  sitting  in  the  dark.    Carl  took  the  unused  candelabra  from  the  bookshelf  and  

  

9  

arranged  a  trio  of  candles,  and  in  a  moment  a  triangle  of  flames  filled  the  space  of  
the  tabletop  with  a  quiet  yellow  glow.      
Dee  said  nothing.    Power  was  out  in  the  whole  neighborhood,  and  the  world  
was  shrunken  to  this  simple  pure  space.  This  was  calm  and  peaceful,  like  being  in  a  
church  but  without  anyone  preaching.    She  felt  safe  and  warm,  just  her  and  Daddy  
here,  like  when  he  would  read  her  the  Poky  Little  Puppy  or  Charlotte’s  Web  before  
she  went  to  sleep.      
Carl  felt  his  aura  merging  with  the  sphere  of  light  around  the  coffee  table  and  
was  inspired.    He  would  make  this  a  teachable  moment.      “This  is  how  life  was  for  
most  of  the  people  who  ever  lived,”  he  said.    “Shakespeare,  Jefferson,  DaVinci,  Dante.    
Their  light  was  the  sun  by  day  and  candles  at  night,  they  wrote  with  their  hands,  and  
that  was  enough  to  permit  greatness.”  
He  looked  again  at  the  papers  with  the  penciled  curves  arcing  across  the  grid  
lines.    There  it  was,  the  simple  and  clean  universe  of  his  boyhood.  The  slope  of  the  
line  is  the  derivative,  the  area  underneath  is  the  integral,  and  with  some  magic  you  
can  go  back  and  forth  between  the  two.  That  was  The  Fundamental  Theorem  of  
Calculus.    Isaac  Newton.    This  time,  this  time  for  sure,  she  would  understand.    She  
would  pass  her  test,  and  more.    This  lesson  would  be  a  revelation,  like  for  the  
children  who  visited  Honduras  and  came  back  appreciating  all  they  had.    This  would  
become  one  of  his  golden  moments,  like  that  day  of  freeing  the  little  bird  in  the  
sunshine  and  letting  it  perch  on  her  finger,  of  watching  his  daughter  laugh  in  delight  
as  it  flew  off  home.    

  

10  
Later  that  night  Carl  lay  in  bed,  pretending  to  sleep,  until  Tranh  slid  silently  

under  the  sheets  beside  him.  This  was  their  routine,  Tranh  always  staying  up  later,  
polishing  the  kitchen  spotless,  then  being  careful  not  to  disturb  her  husband.    She  
held  her  breath  for  a  moment,  determining  that  his  breathing  was  not  the  
unconscious  pattern  of  sleep,  and  then  asked,  “Did  she  learn  it  this  time?”    Her  voice  
revealed  no  conviction.  
Her  baby  had  grown  into  a  stranger,  and  she  went  back  and  forth  between  
hope  and  resentment.    Earlier  Tranh  had  dreams  of  her  girl  becoming  an  eye  doctor  
or  store  owner,  and  when  those  fantasies  where  thrown  back  at  her  with  a  laugh  she  
hoped  Dee  would  spend  time  working  as  a  waitress  or  hospital  orderly.    “She  has  to  
do  something.    This  is  what  they  told  us,  so  many  times  in  the  camp.    When  you  get  
to  America,  it  doesn’t  matter  what  you  do.    As  long  as  you  work  you  will  be  
respected.”  
Carl  knew  not  to  interrupt  the  story  he  had  heard  many  dozens  of  times.    
Tranh  spoke  to  the  ceiling  as  much  as  to  her  husband,  “Six  days  we  were  on  the  boat,  
my  mother  and  three  of  us  children,  and  then  two  years  –  more  than  –  in  the  camp  in  
the  Philippines,  waiting  for  papers.    They  called  it  Viet  Ville,  all  the  locals  smiling  but  
we  knew  they  resented  us.    They  knew  we  were  going  to  get  to  go  to  the  west  
sometime,  like  they  wished  they  could.  “  
Carl  remained  still,  hoping  the  reminiscence  would  not  turn  again  to  the  
Canadian  English  teachers  that  14-­‐year-­‐old  Tranh  adored.    This  time  it  was  
different.  

  

11  
“Two  years  we  had  to  wait,”  Tranh’s  voice  was  almost  choking.  “If  our  boat  

had  been  picked  up  by  US  or  German  ships,  we  would  have  gotten  papers  right  
away.    Instead  we  were  hauled  in  by  Filipino  fishermen  who  wanted  bribes,  then  
taken  to  the  camp  in  Palawan  to  wait  for  processing.    This  girl,”  she  said,  waving  
toward  Dee’s  room,  “this  girl  knows  nothing  of  hardship,  knows  nothing  of  what  
people  must  do  to  survive.    To  be  able  to  go  to  a  school,  any  school,  was  a  blessing  
for  us.    But  this  girl,  all  she  can  think  is  play  and  talk  on  telephone.”      
There  was  more  to  the  story,  much  more,  that  she  would  never  tell  Carl,  and  
only  selected  bits  to  her  daughter.    But  now  she  had  gotten  to  say  what  had  been  
denied  her  at  the  counselor’s  office,  and  soon  her  breathing  turned  into  a  light  snore.  
Tranh  had  lectured  her  daughter  to  be  careful,  to  guard  herself.    Those  years  
at  the  camp,  she  watched  as  the  former  bar  girls  and  hostesses  who  flirted  with  the  
officials  got  papers  rapidly  while  her  own  family  waited.    Tranh’s  mother  refused  to  
behave  that  way,  as  a  model  to  her  own  children.    And  that  was  the  lesson  Tranh  
tried  to  teach  Dee,  beware  of  men,  don’t  be  desperate,  don’t  compromise  yourself.      
Dee  had  listened  carefully,  very  carefully,  to  what  her  mother  said  and  what  
she  didn’t  say.    This  story  always  ended  awkwardly,  with  a  catch  in  Tranh’s  voice  at  
the  gap  between  the  waiting  for  papers  and  the  airplane  trip  to  the  church  group  
welcoming  them  in  Dayton.  In  her  own  mind  Dee  began  to  fill  in  what  other  lessons  
the  16-­‐year-­‐old  Tranh  had  learned,  what  she  had  been  willing  to  do  for  the  sake  of  
her  family.        
The  next  night,  Dee  lit  a  candle  in  Rob’s  room.    Rob  had  shoulders  and  smoky  
eyes  and  did  something  repairing  copy  machines  downtown.    She  had  met  him  three  

  

12  

weeks  earlier  at  O’Brian’s,  where  they  didn’t  card,  the  week  after  being  dragged  
home  from  one  college  in  disgrace  and  pushed  into  another.    Rob  wasn’t  loud  or  
obnoxious  like  most  of  the  guys  there,  so  she  gave  him  her  number.    Dee  had  a  strict  
rule,  not  until  the  third  time  out,  and  the  past  two  Fridays  he  had  taken  her  to  
dinner  twice  and  then  to  miniature  golf,  which  she  thought  would  be  lame  but  he  
was  kind  of  funny.    Now  it  was  time  to  take  this  car  on  a  test  ride.  
“Don’t  you  have  some  class  on  Thursday  nights?”  he  asked.    
Dee  knew  they  had  passed  out  the  exams  ten  minutes  earlier.    She  had  until  
the  middle  of  the  next  week  to  drop  the  class,  and  then  it  would  be  two  months  
before  records  were  sent.    She  would  have  time  to  get  sick  or  get  a  job  before  then.  
“Oh,  that.    That’s  just  boring,  and  I  know  all  that  stuff  already.    Here,  turn  off  
the  TV,  just  come  sit  here  and  be  quiet  a  minute.    I’ll  show  you  something.”    She  took  
the  graphing  calculator  from  high  school  out  of  her  purse  and  held  it  on  her  knees.  
When  the  gray  light  of  the  calculator  screen  flashed  on,  Dee  pressed  the  memory  
recall  key  and  the  number  8.    Daddy  had  put  in  some  equations,  and  he  said  this  one  
was  called  a  cardioid.      “Here,  if  you  want  to  know  why,  you  solve  for  y.”    A  heart  
shape  appeared  on  the  screen.      
Dee  had  learned  how  to  be  popular,  and  it  wasn’t  by  being  a  math  nerd.    
There  were  ways  to  get  whatever  you  wanted,  if  you  dared,  and  Dee  had  her  
mother’s  eyes.    She  clicked  off  the  calculator.    She  wasn’t  wearing  a  bra  tonight,  and  
she  pressed  her  shoulders  together  and  leaned  forward.  The  light  from  the  candle  
just  filled  the  space  between  them.    She  lowered  her  voice.  “Now  a  hundred  years  

  

13  

ago,  people  just  sat  around  at  nights.    They  didn’t  have  these,  they  didn’t  have  TV.    
Makes  you  wonder  what  they  did  to  pass  the  time.”      
Dee  had  calculated  this  equation  precisely.    She  knew  that  when  she  counted  
to  three  and  looked  up,  his  mouth  would  be  right  there.    Math  was  difficult,  but  men  
were  so  easy.    She  had  learned  this  from  her  mother  without  ever  being  told.  
    
  


