On June first 1824, I gave birth to what seemed to be a normal male infant. Nothing that I
could recollect during my eight and quarter month pregnancy gave me the forewarning of what I
would soon bring into this unsuspecting world. I ate what my doctor prescribed to the letter,
keeping both the child and myself well nourished. I stuffed down whatever protests I could conjure
when my world was forced into the confinement of our parlor’s largest blue velvet chair. The
doctor’s instructions were dealt with efficiently to avoid turbulence, and when my infant’s
introduction to the world finally occurred, I could no longer find disappointment in my prior
situation.
The child itself bore skin as white as a pan of boiling cream. Its eyes captured a gentle
delicacy from the exact hue of a winter sunset. He smelled of linen and copper, but that was to be
expected straight from birth. Everything about his presence was expressed as a feeble newborn.
When my husband, Philip, first held the babe in his oversized arms, all was as it should
between an infant son and his doting father. Philip circled his giant’s fingers around his son’s
blonde locks and exclaimed that, oh! It’s just like his. The babe pinched its soft mouth until the
sweet line of his lips turned into an “s” from his bubbling giggles. I smiled politely at the babe’s
prattle for I, too, saw some of my composition molded into the child. My sharp, angular jawbone.
The delicate and yet strong curve of his neck to the spine. And those eyes were mine. Let Philip
claim the hair all he desired.
“Philip, you’ve had your time. Now return him to me so that I might feed him and put him
to bed.” My husband obliged my simple wishes, placing his son into my preferred arms. The child
blinked as he held onto my bosom, as beautiful as any babe with irises reflecting the weakness of
us all. I cooed loving words to his intelligent ears, and the boy brightened a considerable amount,
more than when he was in his father’s embrace, I noted.
Behind the curtain of this new life, both for the infant and myself (no longer the me I had
been but now the new me stepping into the role as caring mother) something was disturbingly
amiss. The perfect familial scene blurred first around my husband leading back to the babe resting
in my arms. I could not dismiss the odd shimmer, for I could feel a great barrage against the inside
of my chest as if tiny fists were pounding with a great furiosity at a crevasse so deep within my own
being that even my thoughts could not begin to peel away those cankerous layers. Then, there was
a pressure so knowing, so insistent that I believed a thatch of prying fingers were conducting a
constrictive grip to my soul. The whole event was horribly invasive, as if whatever was attacking my
being wanted to know who I was before I could ever figure the solution to the puzzle myself.
Startled, I stood up rapidly from the despised blue chair, holding the babe out. His baby’s
feet dangled precariously in midair, and I stared at his miniscule hands as if they were the intruders
that dug their way past my defenses and into the tender idea where the old me reluctantly resided.
Still the person I had been until this very moment.
“Oy! Darling, what is the matter?” Philip’s long strong body was already at my side, his
glass green irises flashing. He reflexively put himself protectively under his son’s outstretched body
in case I might drop the child. Partially stunned and a bit hurt at Philip’s lack of confidence in my
mothering ability, I dragged the babe back to my abdomen as if to reconnect our bond. To go
back to when I could feel every heartbeat, every muscle that twitched, every thought that could
have been made. I cradled the child as if Philip were the unconscious threat, not me.
“I am quite alright, dear. I only had a small start. Lower your hackles before you make the
babe cower.” At this I glanced down at Philip’s son. What face was he bearing? What mask did the
infant procure upon my unexplained actions? I needn’t have worried. The child was in fair
condition, smiling as if the whole world were upon his shoulders and he loved the weight of each
mountain and skyline. I sighed in relief, catching the child’s scent of milky exhaustion.
“You had frightened me, love. If something like that were to happen again, I am not sure
what path I would have taken. Are you still sure you would be alright when I depart?”
“Of course I shall.” I forced my face to tighten into a stiff grin. “You employed Bertha for
just this reason. She is a pleasant enough girl.”
I reflected on my words. Bertha was to be the child’s Governess when he grew into the age
to need one. For now, she was to aid me when Philip left to attend his lands and therefore his
tenants. This endeavor would take a far longer time than what we desired, but it needed to be done
to keep order and peace (and what words could I use to keep him from his duties?) Bertha,
combined with the newborn child, would keep me company, but even with the light of human
presence a darkness consumed the back of my senses.
“Do not fear, my darling, we will both be in one piece when you will return.”
Fear he did not, for before Philip left he named his son a title meaning ‘with courage.’
Then my darling took a small company from the neighboring valley of residents three or so miles
away, a few horses, and my heart with him to his many estates. I could still smell the roasted
chestnuts and burnt sugar aroma that clung to him, even with a good lavender soap scrubbing. No
dead woman ever felt as lifeless as I the moment Philip’s cart passed over the last hill of our land. I
watched and watched the black dot representing my husband fall behind a cluster of trees. Massive
oaks that grew alongside the deadly ravine. I wished for Philip’s safety, hoping the rushing waters
did not swallow him whole as I saw it do that day.
A week melted away, but it might as well have been thirteen lifetimes. Nothing went as it
should. I recall those first strange moments of uncertainty began with the Governess. Bertha would
bring a trolley of rich blueberry scones absconded with sweet cream. Her attitude was demure, and
yet endearing. So when she paused over the herb filled teacups, I believed that she was only being
shy. The pause would stretch, a sugar spoon hovered above the steaming liquid, held by the girl’s
rapidly paling fingertips. My babe would be huddled in my berobed arms, but Bertha’s undivided
attention would be set solely upon my own person, her gaze unfocused. I could make out her
golden irises, deep and endless in their sparkling, unabashed terror. Trickles of sweat glittered
upon her brow, and the once faded creases between her eyes deepened. I became truly distressed.
“My heavens, whatever is the matter, Bertha?” I snapped, despite my intentions of
questioning her kindly. At my brashness, and therefore breaking whatever spell was dastardly cast
into the Governess’s bones, the brunette would hurriedly dash the sugar cubes into my proffered
blue teacup, spill a few drops of milk into my tea, and give an embarrassed, lopsided grin. Her
right eye squinted as it always did when she smiled.
“Please forgive me, Mistress. I only remembered something frightening, something terribly
malicious, but for the life of me, I can only recollect the feeling.”
I could feel the line of my soft lips pull down in puzzlement, trying to decode the girl’s
complicated response. She would slightly shake her head and take my child to his crib, leaving my
being in a horrid state of befuddled confusion.
Night upon night, the Governess repeated these exact bizarre actions with slight variations.
Sometimes, she would accidentally dash the breakfast tea upon its silver tray, needing to mop up
the spilt amber liquid with her woven handkerchief. The water for my bathing tub would
mysteriously be as frigid as a January day when moments prior, Bertha had discussed with me that
the water was sufficiently heated. Other times led to severely burnt bunt cakes and meat pastries,
mistakes that were far below her proper cooking skill. All odd, and annoying inconveniences, yet
what scared me more was when I once caught her muttering indistinct verses with a feverish hiss.
2

All the while, the child would cling tighter and tighter to the folds of my starched gray dress inbetween my bosom, refusing to allow Bertha to touch him.
“I apologize, Missus, but I have been feeling awfully exhausted as of late. Perhaps I am
afflicted with an illness?” Bertha offered as she sat upon a chair dressed with our finest silk laces.
“Oh, my dear, please take the rest of the night to heal. Do not argue with me. I see how
your jaw is tightening. I need you, my girl, and you must be healthy to attend this child, no matter
the cost.”
After a pregnant pause Bertha agreed, leaving the night’s tidings to me, and retired to her
modest chambers. Once I attended to the last of the evening’s chores, I tucked the babe into his
red velvet dressings, cupping his chubby left cheek in my left hand. The wedding ring Philip
adorned my finger with nearly five years prior glimmered enchantingly against the child’s
porcelain skin. But something was inherently wrong. The babe was holding utterly still and staring
at me so intensely, almost as if he was blaming a massive grievance upon my very soul. His light
brown eyes flashed and there, goodness, their color briefly flickered red.
I pulled my hand away with haste, clasping the appendage to my chest. My knuckles
burned as if wasps had plunged their tiny stingers betwixed the joints. The infant grinned gayly,
showing the raw pink gums of his black mouth. It was then that I felt an immense severing
of…truly, I am still unsure. All I can akin the feeling to was that a molten hot knife slid through my
breastbone, and yet I was physically untouched. This is the only method of explanation. Shaking
my head, I cured myself of the unwarranted stupor, and faced the babe.
“Pleasant dreams, child.” I blew out the flickering flames of the white wax candle stick next
to the babe’s cradle, and closed the door upon his angelic face framed by moonlight from the open
bay window.
The following morning, Bertha died.
I located her on the floor next to where the babe soundly slumbered. The woman lay
twisted like a crumpled, dried out spider. Her legs were unnaturally bent to her belly, and arms
folded to her chest like twisted twigs. The plain clothing she wore was sodden, and almost seemed
to have grown dark brown mold. I shouted at the girl, pleading for her to awaken, and knowing
that the time to aide the poor thing had long past.
Bertha had clawed out her own throat. Her broken nails were stuffed with the tender flesh
from her supple neck, congealing into a knot of scabbed ooze. Tracks from her fingers left from
the tip of her pointed chin to her overly protruding collar bone. Strips of skin and muscle piled
next to her like peelings from a russet potato. I am sure I saw the girl’s spine peeking from the
mess of rotting carnage.
“Oh Bertha. Bertha,” I moaned, unsure at what action to take next. Besides the babe, I was
completely alone in this mansion in the middle of my husband’s unpopulated estate. The closet
cluster of population was too far away to take by foot all whilst with the child. I desired for Philip’s
strong arms to comfort the uncontrolled sobs breaking my body to pieces. Even more, I yearned
for the self control and confidence I used to possess before I was married. Free and bold. Not this
whimpering mess of a woman and mother.
A childish giggle bled through the stagnant room. It bounced from wall to wall until the
sound found the one who produced it. My mouth fell open. The child. He giggled and giggled,
shinning brighter than a sunny day without clouds, focused on Bertha.
Cautiously, I followed the direction of Bertha’s dead stare, the final sight she witnessed
before bleeding life onto our best woven rug, staining the white unicorn within the threads ebony.
The boy.

3

Exactly one day passed. During that horrid day, I uncovered the earth in our humble
garden of vegetables and vibrant flowers to plant Bertha’s corpse. The woman’s head almost
snapped from her shoulders, so ruined was her body. All the while, I recounted the babe’s
enchanting laughter and how joyous he was for the death of his Governess. What would I tell her
older brother, the only family of whom she spoke of? They did not seem close, but it was prudent
to tell someone. Still, I did nothing, as of then. I decided the best course of action was to attend the
child until Philip returned. Then, I would relay all, and my husband would take care of the final
details concerning the Governess’s death.
And so the months passed. With each ticking of the forlorn clock, I grew more fearful of
the creature I birthed. The encompassing darkness of the night always carried the thunder of the
disembodied child’s footsteps through the parlor room, down the halls, and at last settling in the
boy’s chambers only to begin anew. My decorative china hanging from hooks on the wall, painted
with the likeness of Philip and myself, would crash to the floor in result of these tantrums. In most
cases, they would shatter to the point that repairing them would be futile. Display cases of Philip’s
rifles clattered and collapsed upon themselves. Thank heavens none of the weapons were loaded.
Joining the cacophony would be screeches of terrible, terrible cackling so close to that of a
haunting banshee. Peel after peel tore through my poor ears as dishes fell, weapons tumbled,
windows opened and slammed closed, and the marching hammered at the ceiling. I hid under the
soft cover of my marital bed, shoving my shaking hands over my ears and hugging my knees tightly
to my chest. I rocked back and forth, back and forth until the crest of dawn rescued me from
purgatory.
Blessed mornings consisted of cleaning away the night’s madness, chucking broken blades
of glass and wood, and righting what was wrong. I was fearful to feed the babe lest he drive me into
Bertha’s particular state of madness, but I would then imagine Philip and his expression when he
half believed I was an unfit mother the day the babe was born. A war raged in my gut until one side
ultimately won. The child was fed, and when he finished with his selfish drinking, I thrust the
creature away to his damnable crib. I spent less and less time with him to rid myself of his
influence, but his contact with me through whatever spirits he associated with only grew.
The terrors eventually seeped into the safety of the day. Whispers and doubts rained from
the ceiling, slapping me repeatedly. Over and over and over. I began to day dream of death, never
truly believing in the teaching of the Bible I read three times a day with small, laughable Sunday
services I held for myself. I hoped that death would be a oblivion. That my mind would be torn
from my continuously beaten body and cleansed with a cool blanket of being unborn. I desired the
chill of expiration like I needed my lover’s hands. The babe, his relentless and harsh
administrations to my mental capabilities when the sun was high, drove me closer to the polished
silver knives I kept in the kitchen’s right cabinet day by day.
All the while, the creature would lay unmoving in his bed of comfort. Grasping his pudgy
toes with infant hands. But I could see through him. The absence of the usual sight of a rug before
the cradle would always remind me, no, confirm that this child was certainly not of my own blood.
That he wanted me as dead as Bertha. This alone lent me enough conviction to live. To beat the
beast at his own defiled game. He would hold no control.
Three months slithered away since Bertha was murdered. Yes, I wholly believe the
Governess’s life was forcibly stripped from her. Those months of hideous torture peeled the slivers
of doubt from my mind.
I was strong. I could handle this creature’s hellish tricks and deviations. Philip could not.
One glance at the infant, and my husband would protect the child until his very demise. I
ascertained that despite the pain that of losing the infant would entail for Philip, I would rather the
4

pain take him than the creature in the cradle. A daring plan formed, taking root into the strings of
my body.
On an afternoon full of fingers of the sun striking against light blues and whites of the open
sky, I gathered the bundle containing the evil creature to my strained chest. It pawed at me, its face
buckled and red as if he were holding his breathe. I did not fuss and coo at the child as I once
would have done before the death of Bertha. Ending the child’s life did not require what was left of
my love and adoration.
Reasoning with myself over and over once more that slicing the child’s mortal thread would
save the lives of Philip and myself, I strode forward. I could not bare the thought of my husband
submitting to the babe’s thrall and becoming another corpse akin to poor Bertha’s. Hearing
muffled infant screams, I noticed that I had been pressing the child so tightly to my chest, that I
had almost suffocated the thing. Though the end result would have been the same, my method in
mind was the higher of two roads. I intended to cleanse the beast.
I planned to throw the evil creature into the ravine beyond the mansion. To purge the
maliciousness burning in the thing’s terrible veins.
When I reached the crashing turquoise waters cutting through rock as yellow as eggnog, I
almost became dizzy with how far the drop truly was, guessing the distance around seven yards or
so down. My mouth drained of saliva and my tongue stuck uncomfortably to the roof of my
mouth. It must be done.
“Farewell, you damned beast.”
I held the babe arm’s length in front of my being and expected the creature to perform his
role of a heavenly angel to protect himself from such a vicious and sure death. I was wrong. This
was no child. I carried an infant shaped like a dripping slug. Rolls of rotting gray skin slopped off
of him in curtains from his wriggling, writhing body. His teeth were crumbling black nubs, drooling
from bulbous cheeks. There were no eyes to speak of, only carved out sockets to cancerous
gangrene infection. The pure odor of all the carnage radiating off of him in waves was enough to
cease my heart of I let it. Disgusting. Wretched. A chill wrapped my bones like a jacket.
“I hate you,” I told my son as I flung him down to the ravine.
“No!”
That was Philip. I looked up to find my husband, fully expecting him to bare witness to the
child’s demise at my side. To my terror, I was completely incorrect. Events had not played out as I
had lived them!
I was hanging by my fingertips off of the ravine’s ledge! My heart leapt, my teeth chattered,
and I was left nonplused. The gravel under my nails slipped, yet I stayed put with feet kicking at
the rock’s wall. Philip was peering over, holding the hellish child oh so close.
“Sweetheart, my love, grab my hand!” Philip extended his giant’s hand gnarled with labor.
The same hand of which took mine when we wed only five years prior. I loved and hated that
hand. I struggled to take it once more.
However, I caught the cunning eye of the babe, his child. It smiled a grin of pure
innocence. The grin of a murderer who got away with his crime. It clutched at Philip’s shirt as if in
utter victory.
And so, I let go of the edge.

5


