Just a little more off the top. Perfect.
I tiptoed my way up Broadway as though the mayor had declared a state of emergency
limiting how fast any member of the public could walk on city sidewalks. My one and only
prerogative was clear: Do … Not … Sweat.
It wasn’t so much the unseasonably hot weather that had slowed the city down to a fifth
of its normal pace; it was the humidity. Each block felt like its own little greenhouse, right down
to the stagnant air and fat droplets of condensation clinging to the storefront windows. I
presumed it to be that last gasp of summer in which the city straddled the line between being
overly ripe and slightly rotten, and in just another day or two the stale heat would break for good
and be replaced by a steady flow of crisp autumn air cascading down from the north.
Nikki and I hadn’t seen each other in well over a week and I was doing everything I
could to preserve my freshness. Beyond showering, I had just spent the better part of an hour
meticulously landscaping every last follicle of hair between my navel and my knees. Freshly
trimmed and shaven parts tend to sweat and stick to each other more readily than when left au
naturel, and I didn’t want to jump into her bed after such a long hiatus with clammy equipment.
Broadway was among my favorite thoroughfares in all of New York City. It functions as
the scoliotic spine of Manhattan, twisting and turning its way along the entire length of the
island. Each mile varies wildly in attitude as it soaks up the local flavors and customs of the
neighborhood it happens to be running through, giving the thoroughfare as a whole something of
a multiple personality disorder. Of course its most well-known identity is that of the Theater
District, home to plays, musicals, Times Square, and all those tourists who come from all over
the world to gape at such things. But on either side of the Theater District a far greater
proportion of Broadway is calm and residential, a fine place to find a patch of shade and rest.
I managed to find just such a spot tucked against the sandstone exterior of an apartment
building. I leaned my back against the cool wall and lifted the front of my shirt to help ease my
temperature back down. Small beads of perspiration had started to speckle my forehead. I
gathered them on the back of my hand and flicked them off into quarantine before they provoked
the rest of my sweating mechanisms into gear. If I tried to press on just another block or two
further I risked triggering a runaway thermal reaction that would’ve soaked me from head to toe.
This was the longest my girlfriend and I had ever been apart and I wanted to avoid that wet
beaver look, as if I had just crawled out of the Hudson.
All morning I’d been brooding over the fact that the weather around the city tends to have
this god-awful habit of being exceptionally pleasant during the work week, then turning
downright hostile for weekends as though it had some kind of reverse-case of The Mondays.
Mother Nature was clearly going out of her way to offend me, so in a fit of frustration I kicked
my head back towards the sky and scolded her. I’m onto you! Every weekend you pull this
bullshit, you slag! In return, a plump globule of water fell out of the sky and smacked me square
in the forehead, shattering into a thousand tiny shards. Christ, even the buildings are sweating.
Getting hit by skyscraper spit is a New York City baptism of sorts. Sooner or later
everyone gets splashed by falling liquid of unknown origin. All you can do is wipe it away and
pray that the worst thing it came out of was the back end of an air conditioner.
My attention turned from the weather to my plans for the rest of the day. I figured Nikki
and I would spend the afternoon seeing how many times we could put her birth control to good
use. Afterwards, I was going to take her out to a new restaurant in Soho. It was rather posh, the
kind of place so high-end they don’t even bother to list prices on their menu. But I didn’t mind.
I was in the mood to splurge, and for good reason: it was our six-month anniversary. Over
dessert I was going to surprise her with a pair of tickets to her favorite opera, Lucia di
Lammermoor. I didn’t particularly care for opera myself, but I missed my sweetheart and I
wanted her to know it.
“Delivery! Seth’s Pizza—you ordered a pie, extra sausage,” I called out in jest, lightly
rapping my knuckles against Nikki’s apartment door. I heard footsteps approach and the
deadbolt turn over.
“But I didn’t order any … Oh, hi,” she answered, looking startled by my unannounced
presence. “This is a surprise. How did you know I’d be home? I figured you would’ve called
first,” she remarked. “The other day you said your train would arrive by mid-morning. And I’ve
missed you too,” I replied, kissing her on the forehead.
“Speaking of surprises, I can’t believe you just opened the door like that, especially since
you didn’t order anything. What if I was a serial killer posing as a pizza deliveryman?” I asked.
“Why on earth would a serial killer go through the random effort of climbing to a fifth-story
walkup?” she replied with a scowl. “My dear, you’re presuming that the most unreasonable kind
of person is going to act in a reasonable way, that’s why. Besides, what if this person was
specifically targeting you? Any maniac can use the mailboxes down in the lobby to ascertain
precisely which apartment you live in. Then it wouldn’t be a random act at all and instead be the
work of a rather cunning serial killer. Which, by the way, I don’t think people give serial killers

Filigree of Infidelity/4
enough credit for being so cunning. I mean, any idiot can just murder someone. But to get away
with it so many times that people consider you a serial killer? Now that takes a whole hell of a
lot of devilish wit. No?”
Nikki wasn’t in the mood for a playful debate and ignored my repartee. Instead, she went
about separating the clothes on her bed, placing some back into their rightful drawers and the rest
into her hamper. I understood why she wouldn’t necessarily be in the best of moods. She’d been
bouncing up and down the eastern seaboard for the past week and the worst part of any trip was
always the very last leg—that nerve-splitting run between Penn Station and home, dragging the
full weight of your luggage through a dank maze of underground passageways being accosted by
beggars, buskers, and vagabonds every step of the way.
I took a seat on her couch, leaning forward so my back wouldn’t sweat. Nikki’s partlyzippered purse lay on the coffee table in front of me. Inside, her digital camera sat nestled
against a crumpled pack of cigarettes and a compact mirror. I pulled it out to go through some
photos, hoping to find something interesting to talk about and take her mind off the
unpleasantness of unpacking.
I barely turned the camera on before Nikki noticed it in my hands and seemed to make a
grab for it. “What are you doing?” I asked. At first she didn’t have an answer. “I want to see
the pictures of your trip. Did you just try to grab the camera?” I held the camera away from her
as she eyed it nervously. “Don’t be silly,” she said, “of course I want you to see the pictures I
took. I just haven’t had a chance to go through them yet and I want to make sure none of them
are for my eyes only.” She curled her index finger back and forth, silently instructing me to hand
the camera over. “I don’t know how a week with your family and then a sorority reunion would
produce any pictures that were for your eyes only,” I replied. She rolled her eyes and huffed.

Filigree of Infidelity/5
“Well, if you must know, the girls and I drank a little too much for our own good last night and
for all I know we took compromising pictures of ourselves. If so, I don’t want you seeing my
friends in such a state just as much as they wouldn’t want you to see them either,” she argued.
“Oh please. I’ve seen most of your sorority sisters in every kind of state imaginable—both
clothed and otherwise. Remember the Catholic Schoolgirls mixer our senior year? Yeah, don’t
forget that was your sorority and my fraternity going at it like a bunch of hustlers. So relax,
these veteran eyes have already seen it all.”
Being the former president of the sorority Nikki was keenly aware of the debauchery that
took place that particular night. Only in hindsight could those involved even begin to grasp how
far it devolved into a severely hedonistic indulgence, one that went so far beyond the boundaries
of good taste that the sorority issued a self-imposed gag order to never speak of it again. Having
experienced it together, Nikki understood my argument. And in recognition of its merit, she was
resigned to squeezing in next to me on the couch and anxiously await the first picture to appear
on the camera’s LCD screen.
“That’s it?” I asked, scrolling through a handful of shots. “The last picture you have on
here is of you drinking a Passion Bucket at Blondies, and I can tell from the front window it
wasn’t even totally dark out yet. The rest of the night is missing and you didn’t even take any
pictures of you and the girls eating breakfast this morning at Fay’s. A little too much to drink?
Why do I have the feeling that’s an understatement?” I laughed off her nervousness. Nikki
appeared visibly relieved that she didn’t take any more photos throughout the night.
Behind my smile, though, I was disappointed in her. Together we’d remained sober for a
month straight and while she was free to drink anytime she wanted, I hoped she wouldn’t.
Furthermore, Passion Buckets were the lowly sorority girl drink of choice at our old college bar,

Filigree of Infidelity/6
a cheap yet viciously potent concoction of clear liquors and fruit juices served in a pitcher … for
one. The odds of blacking out on the stuff were always fifty-fifty and I thought her days of
binging on low-rent swill like that were over. We were graduates now. I had a promising career
in finance and she was on her way to law school.
“I skipped Fay’s. I felt like shit when I woke up this morning and just wanted to get out
of town. I had a cab take me to the train station. I don’t think I could’ve eaten anything
anyway,” Nikki lamented. “At Fay’s? Nonsense. You know her food is a cure-all for
everything, especially hangovers.” Nikki drew a slight smile and picked at the chipped polish on
her fingernails. I don’t think she knew how exceptionally desirable she looked just then. If I
told her so I’m sure she would have been dismissive about it. But to my eyes, sitting there curled
up on the couch in skimpy athletic shorts, wearing an old t-shirt that had gone through the wash
so many times the fabric was no more than a few microns thick, casually braless so that her
slightly agitated nipples were ever-so-seductively apparent …
I reached over and tilted her chin towards me, following through with a prolonged kiss.
She hardly kissed me back but I was unconcerned. She just needed to be eased into the mood.
I untangled her folded arms and gently lifted off her shirt. Her neck was bare. She
wasn’t wearing the black pearl necklace I had given her the first time we said we loved each
other. I hoped she hadn’t lost it, but I wasn’t going to worry about that now.
Nikki stiffened with hesitation. “Relax,” I whispered, laying her out on the sofa. I peeled
off her bottoms and slowly slid my lips down her neck, sternum, and stomach, subtly pausing
between each region to make eye contact and offer a seductive smile.

Filigree of Infidelity/7
“Seth don’t—I feel filthy. I haven’t even showered yet.” She winced and drew her knees
together. “Shhh,” I faintly shook my head in disagreement. “You couldn’t be any more perfect.”
I eased her knees apart. Starting at her navel, I dragged the tip of my tongue further down. As
my head dropped between her legs I could tell my persuasion had put her in the mood—she
already smelled like sex.
“Stop.”
It was a jarring word to hear in that position. I immediately felt uncomfortable in a way
that I never had before. We withdrew ourselves and she quickly put her clothes back on,
trembling.
“I can’t do this,” Nikki said with a whimper. She sat at the far side of the couch, her head
buried in her hands. “I don’t want to live with this on my conscience. I have to say it. I was
with Oliver last night. I was really, really drunk and we …”
She couldn’t say it. She didn’t have to. Oliver was her ex-boyfriend, a townie who lived
near our alma mater. She dated him right before me. “I swear it wasn’t planned. I was at
Blondies with the girls and he just walked in. It all happened so fast. Before I knew what was
going on one thing just led to another. I’m so sorry.”
The hands on Nikki’s kitchen clock withered and fell. The walls breathed, expanding
then compressing and expanding then compressing again, making me feel ill with motion
sickness.
“You and I haven’t been out drinking in so long. I completely lost my tolerance.
Everybody was ordering shots for everyone else and I just got carried away. I blacked out. The

Filigree of Infidelity/8
person that did that last night wasn’t me—you know I wouldn’t do something like that on
purpose. Please forgive me,” she wallowed.
My head despondently wagged back and forth in stunned disbelief. A million words of
love and pain hung from my quivering lips just waiting to be spoken, but nothing came out. It
felt like I was choking.
“I know how badly I fucked up. We’ve been sober for so long now. But I can’t tell you
how scared I’ve been the whole time. I felt weaker every time you told me that you felt stronger,
like I was just getting closer and closer to falling back on old habits until it finally happened. I
need your help, Seth. I slipped up but I know I can quit for good this time. Please, help me
Seth,” she pleaded. I didn’t know what she meant. Nikki unzipped her purse the rest of the way
and tilted it toward me so I could see inside. It was filled with a handful of cocaine baggies,
some empty, some still full, the same style pouch that my former drug dealer used. I pulled them
out, spreading them across the coffee table.
Nikki eyed me with apprehension. She was hoping for sympathy but expecting rage.
She got neither. I was still overcome by the overwhelming magnitude of what she had done. I
tried to speak for no other reason than to break the long silence, but all that came out was a
strained gurgle, like she had fractured my windpipe.
My vision blurred. All that remained in focus were the glassine pouches of cocaine on
the table. An uncontrollable thirst washed over me. I ripped open the nearest baggie and
dumped its contents out, using my Metrocard to carve out a jagged line and frantically sniff it up.
I carved out another, then another still.

Filigree of Infidelity/9
“Please don’t. Please stop!” Nikki cried out, pulling at my wrist. “Don’t do this to
yourself. You’ll only make it worse. I feel bad enough already!”
The cocaine went to task numbing my lips, my gums, my face. I did another line. I
wanted it to numb everything.
Nikki approached hysterics, trying to blurt out any combination of words that might help
the situation. “I know you must think I’m gross right now. I’m going to shower, ok? I’m going
to scrub this disgusting filth off my body and afterwards I’m going to do anything—anything—
you want for me to make this better. We can go back to the way things were. We can be
intimate. Why aren’t you saying anything?! I swear I made him wear a condom. We barely
touched. It was over right away and I immediately knew I had made the biggest mistake of my
life. Seth, I swear, it was nothing compared to what we’ve done. It was nothing compared to
what we have!”
Her desperate plea only made what went on between the two of them more real, more
painful as its vivid imagery played in a loop over and over again inside my head.
I grew more maniacal with my binge, dumping the contents of another packet on top of
what remained of the first. I carved a shoelace line that streaked the length of the table.
My thoughts raced, pouring over every last detail of what she said and how she said it.
“I know I haven’t always been the best girlfriend. And I know I don’t even deserve to be
called your girlfriend after this. But I love you with all my heart, Seth. I’ve always loved you.
You know that I love you, right? Seth? Right …?”

Filigree of Infidelity/10
Hunched over the coffee table, I forced down the lump in my throat with several hard
swallows. The cocaine changed me, sharpening my edges. Feeling certain of everything I
needed to be certain about, I raised my head and stared steadily into her searching eyes.
“I never gave you his number,” I growled. “What?” Nikki asked, looking bewildered. In
her mind my response was confoundingly tangential. “I never gave you my dealer’s number. I
never wanted you to have it. I even tried to disguise it on my phone.”
“What on earth are you talking about? What does that have to do with anything I just said?” she
shrieked.
“You claim that none of this was deliberate, that it was all just a string of innocent
coincidences and mistakes. Yet the very first thing you did was entirely premeditated. I never
gave you my drug dealer’s number, so at some point before your trip you went through my
phone and stole it. Then you used it—behind my back—to buy all this,” I said, gesturing
towards the staggering array of cocaine baggies.
“I was wrong! I admit that! But I’m telling you the truth, I didn’t …”
“I’m not done yet,” I hissed, cutting her off. “You dated your pathetic ex-boyfriend long
enough to know that Blondies is his favorite bar. We both know he still drinks there just about
every night. So tell me, Nikki, how much of a coincidence was it when he walked through that
door? Was it really unexpected? Were you really surprised?” Nikki pulled back. Her face
turned flush and expressionless.
“You may have lost your tolerance for alcohol but when it comes to drinking everyone
knows that cocaine is the great equalizer. Of all the nights we drank enough alcohol to put

Filigree of Infidelity/11
ourselves into a coma not once have we ever blacked out when we had coke in our pocket. Not
once. Yet this time you did? Why now? Why last night?”
“You don’t understand, Seth. I…” she stammered. “Don’t…talk,” I sneered, my voice
rising. “You’ve said everything I needed to hear. By my count you’ve already struck out on
three straight excuses.”
“Next, for some reason inside your twisted little mind you think telling me he wore a
condom might do you some good, as if that somehow discounts the fact that you fucked him.
We both know that he didn’t use a rubber and you’re sick for even trying to mention it. And
don’t test me—if I put to words how I know that’s a twisted lie I think I might just vomit right
here in front of you.”
“Finally, let’s flesh out exactly how this made you feel. Filthy, I believe was the word
you used? You feel filthy? Well, let me tell you what I find filthy. Filthy is the fact that you
woke up this morning, took a cab to the station, rode a train all the way across state lines, then
started to unpack your fucking luggage before you even gave a passing thought to showering that
so-called filth off of you, you fucking germ.”
My response cut deep. Nikki was in shock, like she was bleeding out.
I walked over to her dresser. Just as I now expected she hadn’t lost the necklace. It was
hanging in her jewelry box. In a fit of guilt she must’ve taken it off, but not before her vile
infidelity the night before—I had noticed it around her neck in the lone photograph of her at the
bar.
I grabbed it and made my way back over to Nikki. Lording over her, I lowered the tip of
my pointed index finger to within an inch of her forehead. The necklace dangled from my

Filigree of Infidelity/12
middle knuckle like a noose. “Maybe to you this was just a necklace. But to me it was
everything. My devotion to you, my willingness to sacrifice for you, my unconditional love for
you. You have no idea how many nights and weekends I spent slaving away at the office
working on a special project that won me the award that paid for this necklace. I could’ve spent
that money on anything. I could’ve spent it on myself. Instead, I spent it on us. I spent it on
you. Maybe I was trying to buy your happiness. Maybe I thought I could buy your love, too.
And maybe that’s what love is to you—things, nice things, expensive things, all these things that
I’ve been providing for you. All the while you never gave me anything in return but I never
cared, because I had you and that’s all I ever wanted. That’s all I ever needed.”
“But I can see it now. The truth, or whatever you want to call it. You’ve been cheating
on me all along. Only before it was with booze or coke or the lifestyle I afforded you. That’s
where your heart has always been. You never really committed to this relationship. You never
really opened yourself up to me. Even when you were naked you were still fully clothed. I
thought we went to hell and back together but it turns out you never left. Well, look around.
Hell is a lonely place, Nikki, and I can’t tell you how many times I felt lonelier sitting next to
you than when we were apart. So to hell with you and to hell with this relationship,” I howled.
I gathered all the glassine baggies from the table and stuffed them into my pockets.
Heading out the door I stopped to impart one last thought.
“I loved you to the marrow, Nikki. It was the first time I ever loved anyone like that. My
only regret is that I wasted it on you.”

Filigree of Infidelity/13
A block away from her apartment building I stopped to look over my shoulder. I thought
I might see Nikki chasing after me, pleading in vain for me to reconsider. But she wasn’t there.
The sidewalk was empty. I was alone.
Back at my apartment I laid into the cocaine every time I felt tears welling up inside of
me. I skipped lunch and about the time I should’ve been eating dinner I was already two grams
deep.
At the top of every hour my phone vibrated and thrashed against my glass tabletop with
an incoming call, jolting me to my feet. It was Nikki. I wasn’t picking up and she wasn’t
leaving any voicemails. By midnight she had given up, so I just sat there in the dark getting
more and more twisted.
The more I tried to excise thoughts of her from my mind the more I was tormented by
them. I sunk deep into my couch cushions that had cradled us so many lazy Sunday afternoons,
our tender arms and tired legs knotted into a soft pretzel. Pictures of us together lined my walls,
every smile a poem. Glancing from one to the next my mind strung them together into a timeline
of our relationship. I closed my eyes in anguish. Mental images of her wrapped in her ex’s
embrace flashed like still frames against the darkness. I opened my eyes again in horror.
I presumed it to be around four in the morning when I reached my breaking point. The
coke had stopped numbing the pain hours ago. At that point I was just chasing the white rabbit,
delaying the inevitable misery of coming down off a marathon bender. The thought of going to
work in just a few hours didn’t help. If I didn’t stop thinking about Nikki and get some sleep I
was going to flirt with the kind of madness that leaves permanent scars.

Filigree of Infidelity/14
I entered my bedroom and stripped. Falling asleep was going to be hard. Conditions had
to be just right. I need to be stark naked, face up on the bed, with a thin sheet lightly covering
part of my body but not all. Most importantly, I needed to have a clear mind. Blank slate. No
thoughts at all.
I climbed into bed and remained upright for a moment to silently beg for the mercy of
sleep. Exhausted to the point of collapse, I fell backwards into position. The impact of my head
hitting the pillow splashed a scent into the air. It slowly came to settle on my senses like a
hanging fog. The scent was a combination of shampoo, moisturizer, and perfume that when
blended together formed a distinct smell I instantly recognized. It was Nikki’s scent, her
essence, still clinging to my pillow from the countless times she had slept in my arms.
I doubled forward and dry-heaved between my legs. Pools of foul sweat gathered in the
diamond creases of my mattress. I gave up trying to sleep. The next best thing I could do was
shower, shave, and go to the office, keeping my streak of always being the first to arrive intact.
I dialed my shower’s temperature nozzle to its maximum limit to scald myself clean.
Somehow Nikki was able to regularly shower at that temperature. I knew this because whenever
we showered together we playfully jostled the gauge back and forth, like a game. She would
crank it all the way up and I would distract her with a kiss as I surreptitiously eased it back
down.
Over at the sink I let the water run just as hot. In a minute I’d use it to shave, but for now
I just wanted to bow my head into the rising steam and let it relieve my sinuses. Breathe. It’s
over. She can’t hurt you anymore.
I slowly lifted my head to look at myself in the mirror. What I saw was devastating.

Filigree of Infidelity/15
It wasn’t my face, but rather a large and intricately drawn design on the mirror composed
by a distinctly feminine hand. I had to step back from the counter to take it all in. There was no
way of knowing how long it had been there or how many times I stood in front of that mirror
without it ever being apparent to me.
Covering the entire border of the mirror were playfully etched hearts, drawn during a
prior fog and left to hide until the mirror fogged over again. In the center of the mirror, perfectly
framed by the extraordinary filigree of looping hearts, Nikki had written in bold letters her final
twist of the knife: I Love You.


