Tommy Goodnow was sad and angry and couldn’t sleep. In the darkness he stared
at the glowing hands of his alarm clock as they dragged slowly around its face. His
family’s conversation at dinner earlier that evening played over and again in his mind as
the house went quiet.

“So, I suppose you’ll be wanting lamb again this year,” his mother had said dully,
passing the potatoes to her husband.
“This is a sheep farm, Emma,” Father replied. “What did you have in mind for
Easter dinner – crepes suzette?”
“I suppose you’re right,” she sighed, sipping her coffee. “I’ll put some mint jelly on
the grocery list.”
“I’ve got a good fat one picked out,” Father said smugly, plopping a large spoonful of
mashed potatoes onto his plate. “Remember that spotted male 42A had last spring? He’ll
do nicely.”
“Dad!” Tommy gasped, horrified at his father’s heartless reference to his favorite
lamb. “Not Edgar!”
“How many times have I told you, son? The sheep are not pets. We don’t give them
names.” Setting the serving bowl down with a frown he added, “We have a dog. Play with
her.”
“Juliet’s a working dog,” Tommy said under his breath. “Edgar is a hundred times
more fun than her.” He glared at his half-eaten dinner.
“Stop mumbling. You’re eleven years old. Now grow up.”
Easter was less than a week away. Tommy had fallen in love with Edgar at first
sight when he was born the previous spring. The spotted newborn had more personality


than all of the other lambs combined. Tommy spent every spare minute he had playing
with the feisty lamb – usually while his father was busy in the corn fields or tending the
apple trees. The bond between the two grew strong, and now Edgar instantly came running
whenever he saw Tommy or heard his voice.
Tommy sat at the table with a lump in his throat, unable to think of anything but
Edgar’s grisly fate. Sheep farming was harsh. Since his earliest memories, the annual
cycle of birthing, castration, shearing and slaughter had sickened him.
A week after Edgar was born, Tommy’s father had fitted him with the cruel elastic
band used to castrate male sheep not selected for breeding. As a “spotty”, Edgar’s markings
were considered undesirable. Tommy had watched the daily progress of the elastration
with horror as Edgar’s little scrotum swelled to twice its size, then darkened, shriveled, and
eventually fell off altogether. The memory of his friend’s suffering stirred an angry sorrow
in his chest.
He struggled to control his emotions, but the image of Edgar slaughtered and served
up as Easter dinner was more than he could tolerate. Surrendering to his sadness, he
bowed helplessly over his plate. Large tears rolled down his cheeks and dropped onto his
dinner.
“That’s it, Tommy,” his father had barked at him. “Go to your room and stay there
until breakfast.”

Moonlight shone softly through Tommy’s bedroom window, casting shadows on his
wall. While he contemplated what he might do for Edgar, Tommy re-imagined and
transformed those shadows into figures from the fairy tales and adventure stories he had
read – noble bandits and fierce pirates and great sailing ships. He cast himself in the role
of Robin Hood, saving Little John from the gallows in fair Nottingham town. Then he was
young Jim Hawkins, running the riggings of the Hispaniola and protecting her from the
mutinous crew. As Peter Pan, he rescued Tiger Lily and turned Captain Hook over to the
giant crocodile at the point of a cutlass.
The tick-tock of the clock measured out the hours until, a little after 1:00, the sound
of his father’s steady snoring told Tommy it was safe to go. He slid out of his covers, got


dressed, and tiptoed downstairs. After putting on his boots and coat, he stealthily slipped
outside, careful to hold the mudroom door from slapping shut behind him. Through fuzzy
moonlight shadows he crossed the yard to the sheep enclosure. In the cool April air, their
border collie Juliet stood faithfully alert just inside the gate. Her wagging tail and whining
seemed to say “What are you doing here?” Tommy stopped for a moment to pet her, then
grabbed a length of bailing twine from a nail on the wall. Edgar came running from across
the dimly lit pen.
“Hello, Edgar!” Tommy whispered hoarsely. “We’re going on an adventure. Come
on.”
Looping the bailing twine through Edgar’s collar he fashioned a makeshift leash and
lead him outside. With the twine bouncing between them, they walked briskly around the
side of the barn on a worn tractor path and onward into the apple orchard. Then crossing
the stubbled corn field and leaving it behind, they mounted the nearby ridge that defined
the eastern horizon of the Goodnow farm.
At the top of the hill they stopped. Tommy turned and looked back down the valley.
The sight filled him with exhilaration. He found himself gently startled at how the farm
struck him from that perspective – at once so familiar, and yet somehow new, transformed.
How small the sheep shed, the barn, and the house appeared from that vantage point! And
how odd it felt to look down onto roofs that he never saw – always above his head, out of
sight. He sat for a considerable stretch of time, imagining that this was how God must see
the world. He wondered if the ruler of all could possibly be concerned with the problems
and struggles of an ordinary person like himself.
Meanwhile, Edgar had grown bored and was bouncing and frolicking on his end of
the leash. As Tommy watched the lamb’s comical antics, he recalled how often lambs
figured into the lessons he was taught in Sunday School and church. Innocent and pure,
they were always offered up in sacrifice for some greater purpose. Bible verses he’d been
required to memorize and lyrics printed on hymnal pages rolled by in his mind’s eye: lamb
of God, sacrificial lamb, blood of the lamb. He frowned, wondering where the idea had come
from that for life to be sustained, something innocent had to die. It felt wrong to him.
Backward somehow. Shouldn’t safety and salvation come by resisting evil in the world,

3

rather than killing something innocent? he mused. What does God care for a dead lamb?
What kind of God would create and a world where that made any sense?
Suddenly, Edgar turned and playfully charged him, butting his wooly brow against
the boy’s thigh. Tommy laughed and squatted down, gently grabbing the lamb by his jowls
and pressing their foreheads together. After a moment of quiet joy, Tommy was suddenly
overwhelmed by the realization that he had no idea what he was going to do next. He
looked at the sky and realized he had lost track of the time. The full moon, now hanging
ominously just a few fingers above the western horizon told him it must be nearly three
o’clock. A disturbing sense of urgency fluttered in his chest.
Am I running away? he thought. No, that would be difficult, if not impossible, with
a lamb soon to be a full sized sheep in tow. Even so - where would I go? Is this a mistake?
They probably haven’t noticed us missing yet. Should I go back? He sat down beside Edgar
to think about his options. After some consideration, the difficult but most obvious answer
occurred to him.
He quickly stood up and led Edgar another few more miles, deep into a large wooded
area of state lands bordering the farm. When he figured they’d gone far enough, Tommy
knelt down and removed the leash. He hated that he would never know Edgar’s fate, but
comforted himself with the thought that nothing could be worse than what awaited his
lamb back home at the blade of his father’s butcher knife.
Tommy put his arms around Edgar’s neck and held him again, for what he believed
would be the last time. Burying his face in the soft curls, he took in the lamb’s oily musk.
Overcome at once with both relief and sadness, he clutched his friend closely. He shed a
few silent tears, then stood and wiped his eyes.
“So long, Edgar. I won’t say good-bye. Maybe we’ll see each other again sometime.
You be careful and stay safe. Go on, now. Git!” he yelled. Edgar flinched, but didn’t move.
The boy frowned and yelled louder, pushing him away. Edgar retreated a few steps but
stopped again looking glumly over his shoulder. Realizing that he would have to be more
forceful, Tommy reluctantly picked up a rock and threw it. The rock flew with more speed
and force than he had intended, and hit Edgar hard on one of his rear legs. Tommy cringed
when the lamb bleated sharply and hobbled off into the undergrowth.

4

When he was sure Edgar had gone, the boy turned toward home and put one foot in
front of the other, hoping all the way that he had done the right thing. The walk back,
despite being downhill most of the way, felt far longer than the walk out had. By the time
he reached the valley and was crossing the cornfield again, the full moon had nearly set.
Streaks of dusty rose clouds were faintly brightening the eastern horizon against the grey
sky.
As Tommy entered the orchard, he was considering what he could say to his father
when he got home. The sudden yip of a coyote up on the ridge invaded his thoughts for a
moment. A foreboding twinge tugged at his gut, but he walked on. He returned to his
musing, but was soon distracted again by the coyote’s cry behind him, which grew ever
more purposeful and compelling. To Tommy’s dismay, the solitary call was soon joined by a
second. Then several more voices joined the chorus. The hairs on his arms stood on end as
he heard the yipping swell into the full howling cry of a hunting pack. Then he heard it the terrified bleating of a lamb rise above the clamor.
Tommy stopped, and turning back toward the cornfield froze with panic at the sight
of Edgar emerging from the woods at the far side. He was running as best he could manage
on three good legs. In fierce pursuit, a growling swarm of six coyotes burst from the tree
line and quickly closed the gap between them. In a flash, the leader overtook Edgar and
launched himself at the hobbled lamb. Predator and prey somersaulted to the ground in a
tumble of gray hair and white wool. The remainder of the pack immediately feel in to share
the kill.
Tommy gasped, his eyes wide. But he quickly realized that standing there
dumbstruck was of no help to Edgar. As unready as he was to face his father, he knew he
had no other choice but to turn and run back toward the house. His world suddenly oozed
into slow motion. His legs felt like fence posts, like he was trying to run underwater. As he
rounded the barn and entered the yard, he heard his own voice as if it was coming from
somewhere else. “Dad! Help! Help me!”
His father almost immediately appeared on the porch.
“What is it, son?” Tommy didn’t reply, but stood gasping, bent over at the waist with
his hands on his knees.

5

Even before he had the breath to speak, he wheezed, “I set Edgar free.”
“You did what?!”
“Dad! There’s no time!” he said, pointing back in the direction of the cornfield.
“Coyotes!”
His father immediately ran back in the house, emerging seconds later with a double
barrel 12 gauge and a handful of shells. As the two hurried back around the barn and
through the orchard, Tommy’s father shoved shells into the barrels and snapped the gun
closed. Across the cornfield, they saw the six coyotes circling the lamb, their heads
together, their bodies spinning like spokes on a wagon wheel and tails flailing the air above
them.
Tommy’s father shouldered the shotgun and fired a round in the direction of the
feeding frenzy. The #6 buckshot couldn’t do any real damage from that distance. The
coyotes were so intent on their feeding frenzy, they barely reacted. They stopped for only a
moment to look distractedly toward the sound of the blast, then resumed their attack.
Tommy and his father hurried on, and when they were halfway across, Mr. Goodnow pulled
up and popped off another shot. This time one of the coyotes yelped and tore off toward the
trees. His pack mates quickly fell in behind him, and in seconds they had all disappeared
back into the woods. Their yipping chorus echoed in the trees and rose into the distance as
they retreated up the ridge.
Father and son slowly approached the lamb’s mangled body. It was clear by the
damage done that Edgar was dead. His throat was torn out. Most of the flesh of his back
legs and lower torso had been consumed. Blood was everywhere. His eyes were fixed and
dull.
Dumbstruck, Tommy took in the damage and fell to his knees beside his friend. He
gently placed his hand along the lamb’s cheek and cried a silent, open-mouthed cry of
shattered sorrow. His father watched solemnly with the open shotgun crooked over his
forearm.
“I’m really sorry about this, son” he said, after letting the boy cry it out for a few
minutes. “I really am. But this is why we can’t let ourselves get to attached to the
animals. Do you understand?”
6

Tommy didn’t look up, but only shrugged.
“Listen. We need to bury Edgar. I’m mad as hell about this whole thing, but we’ll
get to that later. Get up. Go to the shed and bring the pick and shovel. I’ll wait here and
make sure those devils don’t come back for more.”
Tommy’s father loaded more shells into the shotgun. The boy stood up with a blank
expression and woodenly walked away. A few minutes later he returned with the tools, and
his father pointed to a small tree at the edge of the woods. “We’ll bury him there. Under
that young maple. You take the pick and shovel over and I’ll bring Edgar along.”
As Tommy dragged the tools toward the tree, his father knelt down and removed his
shirt, carefully wrapping Edgar’s remains in it. He followed Tommy to the maple, and laid
the bloody bundle on the ground. Tommy handed his father the pick, and taking turns, the
two broke ground and shoveled out Edgar’s grave.
“That should do it,” Tommy’s father said, when they had finished digging. He
stepped out of the hole and wiped his brow, then gathered up the lamb’s broken body, still
wrapped in the bloody shirt. He lowered it gently into the bottom of the grave. They took
turns backfilling the hole – softly at first, then with more energy once the bundle was
covered and out of sight.
When they had finished, Tommy found a few large stones nearby and carefully
placed them on top of the gently curved mound of earth. He stepped back and stood for
some time, staring down at the grave. His father stood beside him, holding the shovel in
front of himself with the blade on the ground. He shifted his weight and looked back and
forth from the fresh earth to his son’s face.
“Is there anything you want to say, Tommy?”
“Like what?” he replied sullenly. “You don’t pray for sheep, do you?”
“I suppose not.”
“I guess all I can say is I’m sorry about what I did. I was trying to save Edgar, and
now he’s dead because of me.” His father nodded solemnly, but didn’t reply. “Can we go
now, Dad?”

7

“Yeah. Let’s go.” He handed Tommy the shovel and the pick and carried the
shotgun over his arm. The two walked slowly in silence back across the corn field, through
the apple orchard, and on to the house. The upper limb of the sun was sparkling just above
the eastern ridge as they reached the porch and sat down together on the top step.
Tommy’s mother came out to check on them, wiping her hands on her apron. “Is
everything all right, Father? I heard gunshots.”
“One of the lambs got out and the coyotes got after him,” he replied. He jerked his
head slightly at Tommy, who sat silently with his head down.
She looked back and forth between her husband and her son. She noticed the fresh
earth on the pick and shovel. “Oh dear. You weren’t able to save him?”
“No. Tommy and I had to bury him.”
“Oh. I see. I’m sorry. Well, coffee’s on when you’re ready.” Mother bent down and
stroked Tommy’s hair before she went back into the house. Side by side, father and son sat
for a while, each in their own thoughts.
“I know now how much that lamb meant to you,” father said, breaking the silence.
“But what were you thinking?”
“I don’t know. I just didn’t want him to die. At least not the way you had planned. I
couldn’t stand the thought of him slaughtered and roasted and served up on a platter
between the carrots and the onions.”
“Well that wasn’t your call to make, son. “
“I know, Dad. I really am sorry.”
“Sorry doesn’t bring him back.” Father squinted, looking off into the distance. His
jaw muscled flexed before he said, “I’m doubling your chores between now and Memorial
Day. I need to spend more time in the fields and the orchard anyway. So I’ll be giving you
some of my daily work to do. Got it?”
“Yes, sir.”
“No Little League for you this year, either.”

8

“But Dad!”
“No. And that’s final. Be thankful it’s not worse. If I didn’t know how sorry you are,
it would be. Know that.”
“Yes, sir.”
A long moment passed. The sun continued to creep up into the eastern sky. Tommy
looked over at the sheep pen.
“So what are you going to do about Easter Dinner?” he asked.
“I’ll have to choose another one,” Father said, his gaze sliding over to a group of
yearlings bouncing around in the pen.
“Dad?”
“Yeah?”
“I don’t want to be there when you – you know. The other lamb. I just don’t want to
be there.”
“I understand, son.”
“And I’d like to be excused from dinner on Sunday, too - if that’s okay. I’d only be
thinking of Edgar anyway.”
“Well, your Mom will be disappointed. But I’ll explain it to her.”

~<>~<>~<>~<>~

A little after noon on Easter Sunday, Tommy walks across the fields toward
Edgar’s grave. His parents are back in the house after church. It’s a scene he knows well.
The house is filled with the smell of roasted lamb and vegetables. His father is taking off
his tie. Mom is putting on her apron to get dinner on the table. She was disappointed
about Easter dinner, but his father must have convinced her somehow. Tommy relishes the

9

feeling of lightness and independence of being alone – free to think his own thoughts and
sort through his feelings about everything.
The sun is bright. Warm, but not hot, it falls softly on the ground. The first green
sharp shoots of grass are pressing up through last year’s brown mat of dead vegetation. A
fresh spring breeze carries that ephemeral scent of renewal that will linger for only a few
weeks and soon be gone. He recognizes the songs and calls of birds seeking mates and
establishing territories. They will not sound the same at any other time of the year.
Tommy carries a six-pound hammer in one hand and a wooden cross to mark
Edgar’s grave in the other. He is quite pleased with the cross, which he crafted himself. He
used 2” X 2” oak stock, and put a proper dado joint at the center. Painted white, it bears
Edgar’s name neatly lettered in sky blue paint across the horizontal crosspiece.
When he reaches the grave, a pang of guilt and sorrow tugs at his chest as he looks
at the peaceful mound of earth. But he does not cry. The time for crying is past. He takes
comfort in the fact that, one way or the other, Edgar was not going to be alive on this day.
Although his imperfect plan had failed, he had done what he felt was his best chance to
save him.
Tommy steps up and carefully positions the pointed end of the cross on the ground
at the head of the grave, and gently taps the top a few times to get it started. He takes a
step back to make sure the location is right, then widens his stance, grips the hammer
firmly in both hands, and swings the hammer down. The sound of the hammer strokes
echo softly among the trunks of nearby trees. When he has driven the cross down to the
proper depth, he takes a moment to admire his work. He is pleased with the result. It is a
proper memorial for his friend.
After some quiet reflection Tommy, feeling more like a young man than a boy now,
climbs up to the ridge and returns again to the overlook. Strangely, it feels a much longer
time has passed than only the few days since he was last there, looking down on his home,
the farm, and the fields, with Edgar playing nearby. Closing his eyes, he breathes deeply
and relives the moment when he stood there wondering about God, and Edgar butted his
leg. And he smiles.
~<>~<>~
10


