Flashing lights. City lights. I hate this place. I can’t even remember how I
got here. I’ve never seen such bright lights. I was in darkness for years. Darkness.
The word conjures awful memories. For ten years, I was trapped in a dark room.
I’m not sure why I was kept there or how I escaped. The moon burns my eyes.
I wonder how my family is. They must be worried sick. The first place I
went to was home. I looked through the window and it seemed like they moved on.
I backed away slowly and walked away without thinking twice. I might as well be
dead. I walked to a dark alley. No one will come by here.
The sharp corner of the cold metal dumpster I’m leaning against is
beginning to cut into my skin. They won’t see me here. I was resting, waiting for
my final hour to come by and take me away. As I was sitting there, I heard a noise.
“Whose there?” I ask, startled, peering into the dark alley at a figure moving
about in the shadows. No one responds.
I closed my eyes to drift into an eternal sleep but then there was that noise
again but this time it was closer. I clench my fist, and grit my teeth in anticipation
of being captured and returned to my dark room. I am paralyzed by hurt. My
invisible makes quick light steps towards me.

It’s steps are not as heavy as I remember. My invisible tormentor.
“Hello there, little boy” I nervously said to him, looking round for an
accusatory paranoid parent.
He says nothing, just stares at me with sad puppy face. His eyes were two
different colors. How is that possible?
“What is your name?”
He gave an eerie smile then ran off into the shadow less alley, looking back,
taunting me to follow. The smart side of me said don’t follow him it could be some
sick game or something. The stupid side of me said go after him, he’s a child. Of
course, I followed my stupid side and went after him. Walking deeper into the
place where shadows disappear, I look for him. Without further thought, I started
after him, pulling my jacket closer about me and adjusting my collar. They don’t
call this the windy city for nothing. I peered through into the moonlit alley and see
a figure staring back at me. I shuffle closer and squint my eyes.
“Where are your parents?”
I continue walking down this dark place. The figure growls a low response,
while drawing-heaving breaths, then takes a step forward into a slant of light. I
mean it looked like him but his face had more of a demonic look to it. I ran away
as fast as I could.
“What the –”

I dash towards the main street, looking over my shoulder to see if I’m being
chased by, by that thing with razor sharp teeth, and elongated facial features in the
body of a boy. I see it watching me fade out of focus.


I woke up in a nice, brightly lit mansion.
“These are really soft sheets. Wait! How did I get here?”
Yesterday I thought about killing myself and now I’m here in a nice place and in a
nice bed. I slowly raise the bedsheets and check to see if all my organs are intact.
The last thing I remember is running out of the alley. I get up and check the joint
out. It’s nothing like my last prison. Instead of musk and death, this room smells of
springtime. Suddenly, the door creaks open. I swing around and see the thing from
the alley. I frantically look around the room for something to swing or throw but it
disarms me with a smile. The face it made, the face he made. How scary it was. He
kept coming closer. I tripped over some toy like thing and fell to the floor. The boy

started to walk, then got down on all fours and crawled to me. I shuffled into a
wall, nowhere to go only to accept my death. I close my eyes from seeing what
was going to happen to me. I felt him touch me. I open my eyes to him hugging me
and sitting on my lap. Surprised, I couldn’t do anything. I was just startled. My
heart was racing at a tremendous speed. He then got up and offered his hand to me
to follow him. Not knowing where I was going I took his hand, got up and
followed.
He took me to the kitchen. I’m guessing he was hungry by the way he
looked at me. He wanted me to fix him something to eat. Ugh, how did I get into a
situation like this? I cooked him the only thing I really knew how to cook. I use to
cook my son a certain dish that he loved dearly. I glanced back at him sitting at the
table like an innocent normal child swinging his feet, but he hasn’t talked yet. I
don’t know why he has me here. Maybe it’s because he is lonely. I’m still scared
of him, of that form. What is that about? Why was he like that? I brought his food
to the table and gave it to him. I sat at the other end. Staring, watching him eat. He
looked up at me and smiled. That same emotionless face smiled right at me. His
eyes kind of got connected to me. Those two colors what does it mean. He finishes
his food, came over to me and hugged me again. This time it was like a hugged
that would never let go. I looked at him and he looked at me, his eyes shaking, he

started crying. This child, just what is he? For some reason he grown attach to me.
I can’t leave him.
“What is your name” I asked again hoping for an answer.
He mumbled his name like he wanted to say it loud but couldn’t. I asked him again
and he said his name was Leo.
“Leo why are you here alone where are your parents”? I said.
“They were killed” he said.
He’s all alone in this house. He wanted me to be his new caretaker. He fell asleep
in my arms. I picked him up and bought him to his room. I then too went to my bed
to relax for a few.
Hours later Leo came in my room. He wanted to lie in the bed with me.
The thoughts in my head, a human and a demon child together. No one would
approve of this. Kill him! Kill him! Kill him! I went to the kitchen, grabbed a
knife, came back and there he was in the bed so innocent. I walked up next to him,
held the knife in my hand waiting. My thoughts saying “do it! Do it!” I dropped the
knife and sat on the side of the bed. I couldn’t possibly kill a child. Demon or not
he is still a child. I put my hands on my face and put my head down disappointed
in myself. Leo woke up and noticed me sitting on the floor.

“Wh.. What’s wrong?” Leo asked while rubbing the sleep out of his eyes.

“Nothing Leo. Go back to sleep. Everything is okay.”
Leo yawned and replied “Okay Dad”. He went back to sleep. I went to bed and fell
asleep with that thought in my head.
The next morning I woke up to Leo’s demon face. I jumped out of bed and
fell to the floor. Leo is on the bed laughing and rolling around.
“That’s not funny. You could have gave me a heart attack.”
He got sad and apologize to me. I couldn’t bear to see him sad.
Okay it’s okay. Don’t be sad. It was just a joke. Hey why don’t you get
ready and dressed. We are going into town today. Maybe you can show me around
a little.”
He jumped up with joy and went to his room to get ready. I went in the shower and
got out. I didn’t have clothes also and I didn’t want to wear the clothes I had on
yesterday. Leo’s father clothes were still here. I would feel weird wearing a dead
guy clothes but what choice do I have. I went through his father closet for clothes
and boy he was loaded with all these custom clothing. Guy had to be rich! Found
the clothes that fitted me best and went to see if Leo was ready. I opened his door.
He was putting pants on and he had something I would never thought to see. He
had a tail. I closed the door fast. I have to get used to the fact that this boy is a
demon and I shouldn’t be afraid. He wouldn’t hurt me. I opened the door and
smiled.

“Are you ready yet Leo” I asked him.
He ran up to me, hugged me and nodded his head with a smile.
While we were walking into town he tugged my arm to get my attention.
“Umm I am sorry for you seeing my tail. I have to be more careful and hide
it more” Leo said shyly.
“No it’s my fault I should have knocked and plus I have to get use to what
you are. I just like seeing you smile. That whats important.” I said.
He nodded and ran up ahead to a clothing store. We went and brought stuff for
him and I. We were getting hungry but I didn’t know where to go to eat. Leo
recommended a ramen shop that his parents use to take him too. I never heard of it
and matter of fact I never even saw it there. There is something off about this
place. We walked in and head straight for the bar. They knew Leo but all of them
kept staring at me. I finally realized why I think this place is weird. Only Leo saw
this place and Leo knew everyone. Everyone here has to be a demon no doubt
about it. “What do I do”? There’s nothing but demons in here. I was trembling with
fear and I think they smell it. Leo and I took our seats at the bar waiting for our
ramen.
“Don’t be scared. As long as I am here they can’t hurt you. I Promise.” Leo
said to me gently.

I smiled trying to not look so nervous. Our food finally arrived. We both ate and
left. I still wasn’t comfortable with this place especially that one guy who kept
staring at me.
As we were walking back to the mansion Leo had to pee. I told him to go
into the ally way and pee by the dumpster. He went to go pee behind the dumpster
and as I sat there waiting for him I saw this big shadow figure towering over me. I
turned around and it was the guy from the ramen shop. His aura or anguish
consumed me. It hurt, the way he was looking at me. He was hungry and he
wanted to eat. His tongue was hanging out and his sharp fangs showing from his
smile.
“Puny little human, you aren’t getting away from me. You are my dinner
and I’m going to enjoy this”.
His words sent chills down my spine. His presents paralyzed me. I couldn’t move
or speak. He was getting closer and closer. He then lounged at me, attempting to
grab me, but then this tall demon came and hit him one good time in the face.
“Who are you!?” The strange demon said angrily
“Don’t you ever touch my dad”. The tall demon responded.
My dad! What could he be Leo. No way. I ran over to the alley to see if Leo is
there but he wasn’t. I looked back at the two fighting. The tall demon stands on top
of the demon from the bar.

“No wait please don’t kill me. I beg for mercy. Please don’t do it. I’m sorry
I won’t hurt him.” The demon from the bar pleading for his life.
“You should have thought about that before you tried attacking him. Were
you going to show mercy to my dad? No? Okay then.”
“No wait.. Wai….”
The tall demon killed him without hesitation. He turned back to me and smiled.
His eyes… his eyes are two different colors. Is that really Leo? Yes it was. Leo
walked to me and passed out into my arms turning back into the child that I knew.
I took him home and put him to bed. I went to go take a shower. The water hit me
with every drop. My thoughts were going rampant. This boy, this child saved my
life today. He is my child. But that form. It was like he was a different person. So
that face that he showed me isn’t his full form. He was really this powerful this
whole time. What world do I live in right now?
The shower turned cold. I hopped out not knowing that I been in there for
more than an hour, so caught up in my thoughts. All the things that are going right
now are making me tired. I can hear my bed calling me. Walking to the bed the
room started to shake. Couldn’t keep my balance, I fell down to the floor. Trying
to get up I couldn’t. It felt like I was being held down by something. I looked up
and demons were holding me, laughing at me. The walls started crying blood. All

this makes me vomit. I hear them. They’re all screaming and banging on the walls.
I can’t it anymore.
“Stop…. Stop it…. ENOUGH!”

Chapter 3: To Hell we go

Am I hallucinating? I fell out to only wake up in my bed. Was it just a
dream this whole time? When did I fall asleep? It all felt so real. The next morning
Leo came in my room and on to my bed. He was staring at me, asking me to make
him some breakfast. I got up and asked him does he remember anything from last
night. He said no. Wow changing into that form must have been tiring for him. It
took up so much energy. We go into the kitchen to get something to eat. Leo
jumped into the chair at the table and starts playing with his hair. I make him his
favorite. Chocolate pancakes, bacon and eggs on the side and a glass of fruit
punch. I’m sitting there watching him eat when I ask
“What really happen to your parents”.
He just shrugged his shoulders. By the way he answered I can tell he doesn’t want
to talk about it. I have to know what happen to his parents.
“Does your parent have any brothers or sisters?”

“Yeah, my dad has a brother”.
“Where can I find him”?
“Umm the last time I knew where he was he was in hell as the leader”.
“The leader! Your uncle is the devil?” I said surprised.
“Yeah I think so”. He said while stuffing his face.
I sat there silent for a while. The Devil huh. That’s something I can’t get over. I
finally pull myself together and had to see him.
“How can I go to hell Leo?”
“It’s really easy really all you have to do is go to the basement of this
house.
There’s a basement in here I never knew that’s. Now I know why Leo never told
me about it.
Leo took me down to the basement and this big door appeared.
“Okay Leo I must go alone. You have to stay here and watch the house
okay?
He nods his head and watches me leave. I walk down this tunnel then suddenly a
force pulls me in towards the door. I don’t know what to do so I just let it pull me.
The door smacked open and I was thrown through this worm hole. I finally stop
hitting the ground hard. Everyone's looking at me. It’s probably because they know
I’m a human in hell and I’m not dead. No human can come to hell without being

dead. But that’s not what I’m here for. I walked over to a demon that looks like he
knows where the devil is at.
“

Ex… excuse me do you perhaps know where the devil is?” I asked the

creature
He didn’t answer me.
“Hey Mr. Wise guy where’s the freaking devil”. Getting frustrated.
That really pissed him off. He pushed me in the line with the other humans. They
were dead souls I was still alive. I was stuck in line. They wouldn’t let me leave.
Don’t these dead souls go straight to the devil? I stayed on line thinking that I was
going straight to him. I was wrong. They separated us and I went to a room full of
cages. I didn’t know what to do now. They put me in a cage and I felt my body
losing a lot of strength. There’s a gas that they are putting in these cages that
makes you weak. All I see is guys dressed in a long black robe and black wings
spouting from their backs. My eyes slowly closing, then this guy came, open the
gate and let me out. I told him that I have to see the Devil right away. The demon
nodded his head and took me to see the devil. We went to this big castle, up to the
top floor and there he was. The Devil. He gave off this evil energy. I was scared to
approach him at first but I had to do it. He looked at me and said
“You are different than the others”.

I said “yeah it because I’m not dead. I came here by your brother’s house
basement”.
His eyes open wide.
“How did you get into my brother’s house?”
“His son Leo brought me to his house to take care of him. I love him like
my own son, but I was curious about what happened too his parents”.
“Silent!” He said. “I don’t have to listen to a mere human.”
“But this isn’t just for me it’s for Leo too!”
“I am the devil. You don’t demand stuff from me.”
“I am that child’s father now so I have the right to know unless… you were
the one who killed them.”
That pissed him off. I don’t know why I would piss of the devil. He got really
upset and tried to strike me then that guy who let me out of the cage blocked the
attack.
“Oh you are quick… just like your father Leo”.
Leo! I thought I told him to stay home. He followed me and I didn’t even notice.
The Devil sat back down and laughed.
“Devil can you please tell us what happen to his parents” I said.
“Alright” The Devil said. “His parents were murdered by the same people
who captured you ten years ago”.

“What. That’s impossible. But those guys were humans I think”.
“That’s what you think. Actually, they are top class demons and you are a
low-class demon”.
“What the hell. I’m not a demon at all. I’m human I have or had a family.
Everything about me is human”.
“That’s what you tell yourself but why do you think Leo is so attached to
you. Only some of us can tell who’s really a demon or not. But you have really
forgotten how to be a demon. I sent you to earth for reasons. Something must have
happen”.
“I don’t remember anything” I said. “I was just living a normal life”.
“You are a demon and that’s that”.
“Wait, where the demons that killed Leo parents are?”
“They are around, but hearing that you are still alive they will be coming
for you”.
“That’s great; let them come because when they do I will be waiting”.
Leo and I left back to the house. Back at the house I went straight to my room. Leo
came to my room and sat down on the bed next to me.
“I knew things wouldn’t be good if you went alone. I had to come”.
“It’s okay son. You protected me. But it’s about time I started protected
you”.

“What do you mean?” he said.
“It’s about time I find out about my so call demon powers or whatever. But
I don’t know how to”.
Leo laughed at me and I laugh back. We both went to sleep tired from a long day.
The next day we went to the park up the block from us. When we got there
we felt as if we were being followed. Leo pulled my arm and I already knew they
were here. I turned around slowly.
“Come out. We know you are there.” I yelled.
Two men came from behind the tree
“So you still are alive and look you have puny Leo with you too. How cute.
Now we can finish what we started. We are going to kill you both”
We got position ourselves to fight. Leo turned into that class A demon and
me…well I’m still human. “Shit” I thought. Why can’t I change, was the devil
lying. The two demons charged at us. One of them punched me in my face and I
fell to the floor. Blood came spouting out if my mouth. Leo looked at me getting
hit.
“Dad”, Leo yelled.
The guy hit Leo while he was distracted. We are both getting beat badly. The
bigger one had me in a hold making me watch Leo get beat to near death.
“Leo”, I screamed “Leo! Get out of here run”.

Leo didn’t leave. He stayed there getting beat.
“Why Leo… why? Why won’t you run away”?
“It’s because I can’t run anymore. I won’t let anyone hurt the ones I love
anymore”.
The smaller demon then knocked Leo on the floor and stabbed him with wing.
“Argh!” Leo screamed.
I then felt anger boil in my chest. That scream it was the trigger. Seeing the one I
love hurt. My head hurts and my body gets hot. My teeth were throbbing, growing
fangs and my hand grew claws from it tips. My body was changing. The pain from
my bones breaking and forming in my body was unbearable.
“I won’t let you hurt Leo anymore!”
I break out of the big guy’s grasp, grabbed his head and threw him into a tree. He
smashed through it and hit every tree in that direction until he was out of sight. I
walked, then flash step to the smaller one and smashed him into a million pieces
with one punch. I looked at my arms surprised of my powers.
“I thought I was a low class demon” I said.
“No” Leo said coughing up blood. “You are a low class demon because no
one knows exactly what you are”.
“Shh Leo you are hurt? Here bite my arm and drink my blood”.
“Will that work”? He asked.

“Yes, I think it will. Just hurry up and rest”.
Leo drank my blood. The big demon came back. He has transformed into a more
fear, vicious demon. More like a behemoth. I run up to him and attacked him but it
had no effect.
“What! Did I give Leo too much blood?”
The behemoth slapped me away. The force of the blow was so powerful. I hit the
floor so hard that it created a dent in the earth. I barely stop myself. I have to think
and think fast. The behemoth charged at me with force and speed. I dodged but just
barely. He’s fast for a guy his size. I looked over and there’s a mud spot on the
ground. I ran for the mud spot. The behemoth chased me just as planned. His speed
makes him slip through the mud and fall. I then turned around. Charged at him and
attacked and kept attacking. Punch after punch. I kept hitting him in the face and
body. It was doing some damaged but not enough. He got out of the mud and hit
me again in the stomach. I fell to the ground gasping for air. The behemoth
charged at me again but Leo jumped in the way and stopped him, grabbed him and
tossed to the side. Leo shining like a knight. I can feel his aura. It’s stronger than
before.
“Come one dad we got to finish this”.
“Right!”

“You think you both can take me out. Try it! I will eat your heart out and
dispose of your body!” The behemoth said while recovering to his feet.
We both charged at the behemoth attacking him from every angle fast. The
behemoth gets weaker and turns back into his demon first form. We both hit him
with a final blow that tears him into pieces. It’s over. I blacked out. My body
couldn’t handle this much power. Leo took me back to the house and nursed me
back to health. I woke up and saw Leo sitting by me on the bed. He looks at me
and smiles and I smile back.
“I love you, dad”.
“I love you too, son”.
Everything seems like it's going to normal for change... or so we thought.


