I think of the Phareng everyday. I think of his white skin and his cheeks
that would turn something between pink and red whenever Mei-Duh lit the
third fire.
I think of his scent, his hair, and his promises. He smelt of pine trees
and foreign made Indian liquor, and his hair was thinning, curly and golden. I’d
only seen golden hair on television. The people with golden hair on television
seemed otherworldly with their white skin and their whiter teeth. My hair is
black, my skin brown, and my teeth are something between-dark-and-light
yellow.
There’s nothing that I can do about my skin and dyeing my hair a different
colour is above and beyond the less-than-agreed-upon wages that Mei-Duh
pays me. I have noticed a pattern. A few days before the end of every month,
Mei-Duh and her eldest son do one of these three things:
1. Mei-Duh shows me a copy of the electricity bill and claims that I and
my TV-watching ways are responsible for the hike.
2. Her son and his friends use the cups that I wash and put away after
closing hours to drink their liquor from and any missing cup is blamed
on my carelessness.
3. Mei-Duh and her son speak loudly about a relative of theirs whom they
wish they could employ in their ‘Khasi Sha & Ja’ shop instead.
I say nothing when Mei-Duh or her son hands me my salary. It’s always in
an envelope, and when I count it in their absence, I do a little dance when it’s
in the correct amount. I count my salary and blessings anywhere I can.
The whitening of my teeth, however, I can do a lot about. I brush four
times a day on the advice of an older friend. I rub them vociferously with
turmeric on the advice of a regular customer who eats his all of his meals in
the shop and watches an evening episode of my favourite show with me.
“But wouldn’t turmeric only make my teeth more yellow than they already
are?”
“At first, yes.”
“So why would I rub it on my teeth?” I countered. “The goal is to turn
them white, Bah-Rit, not another shade of yellow.”
“They will turn white,” Bah-Rit assured.
“How long might that process take?”
“Sooner rather than later.”
I am fond of Bah-Rit and the clichés that make up much of the way he
converses with people.
It was a different kind of rainy weather when he walked in. Our
collective heads turned and there was exclamations in excited and hushed
tones.
“U Sahep, peit!” A white man, look!
“U rung u Phareng!” A foreigner walked in!
The Phareng walked up to the counter and asked for a towel. I looked
at Mei-Duh and she at me. He spoke English and it sounded exactly way the
people on TV spoke. Between my awkwardness and Mei-Duh’s staring, we
did not give what he asked for.
He asked again and Mei-Duh said that we didn’t have any towels to
give away to strangers. Mei-Duh can answer in English with a confidence that
I don’t have. She lived and worked in the capital city for twenty or so years
before taking over the reins of the shop from an ailing aunt who had since

passed away. In the city she worked in a government office and served tea,
Khasi cakes made of rice, and English-style plum cakes and biscuits that
were too sweet to overpaid government servants who used the majority of
their working hours to gossip, lose important files and documents, and forget
deadlines. Mei-Duh learnt to speak English and Hindi, both broken, and I wish
to be able to do the same soon.
The Phareng smiled with a smidge of annoyance. Bah-Rit gave him his
handkerchief and the Phareng wiped his face, rinsed it, wiped his hair, and
rinsed it again.
“Ai ja bad sha sieh ia i, sngewbha.” Bah-Rit asked us to give the
Phareng rice and tea. Ja is rice in the Khasi language and Ja is lunch or
dinner. Ja is rice and meat and vegetables and fermented fish chutney. And
Sha is tea. With and without milk. The latter preferred by people like me for
the obvious. It quenches one’s thirst without adding rupees to my weekly
budget.
“But, Bah Bit, he’s not ordered anything,” Mei-Duh replied.
“Do you want to eat rice and drink tea?” I said to the Phareng in Khasi
and pointed to the counter.
For Ja there was white mainland-India rice, red locally cultivated Khasi
rice, dark-yellow rice cooked in chicken blood, beef stew, burnt pork, pork
cooked with sesame seeds, gravy and oily chicken, fried fish, potatoes
cooked in refined oil, potatoes cooked in unrefined oil, cucumbers, tomatoes,
and a diverse offering of fermented fish chutney.
For Sha, there were rice cakes of diverse texture, taste and colour. And
of course, your choice of tea with milk or without.

	  

3	  

The	  Phareng	  
	  

	  

	  

The Phareng choose white mainland-India rice, gravy and oily chicken,
and tomatoes.
I and the entirety of the ‘Khasi Sha & Ja’ shop fixed our gaze on this
exotic gentleman who asked for seconds and then another. He drank two
cups of tea. The first with milk and the second without. He and Bah-Rit
engaged in (some?)what boisterous conversation and Bah-Rit loved the
attention his conversation skills in the English language garnered from the
rest of us.
Everyday after that for the next week, the Phareng ate his lunch and
dinner in our shop. I served him all of his meals and tea.
“How are you doing today, my love?” was his greeting.
The nods and self-conscious giggling soon turned into “Good, yes”.
The confidence I gained was liberating. I take pride in the small steps I am
able to make, in the ounces of progress that I am able to witness.
The Phareng taught me to say a number of things with conviction and
belief.
“I am doing very well, thank you.”
“I live in Sohra and I manage a rice and tea shop.”
“My name is Phibaker and I am 18 years old.”
“I want to go to the United Sates of America.”
“My son is two years old and I love him very much.”
I practised these and some other terms with a dedication that I wish I’d
given my studies. I practised these with an optimism that I wish for my son. I
practised these because I believed in the Phareng and all that he taught and

	  

4	  

The	  Phareng	  
	  

	  

	  

told me. I asked him about his country and the places he’d visited. I asked him
about his family and the work that he did.
He was born and brought up in the United States of America and left
school at sixteen to travel across the country. He worked odd jobs
everywhere. As a cleaner in a motel owned by immigrants from the opposite
end of this country. As a waiter in a fast-food restaurant. As a drug dealer
where he made more money in three months than most people with regular
jobs did in two or three years.
I was fascinated by his stories of America and his past. That he lived in
a country where you could travel the length and breadth of it, and make
money doing anything you wanted was fascinating and as true as the shows I
watched on television.
He was the eldest of three children to parents who loved Jesus, guns
and freedom, in that order.
“Why did you leave your family?” I asked.
“I wanted to see world,” the Phareng said. “And when I left, I left
everything behind, Jesus, guns, and freedom, in no particular order.”

But four years and a few months after he’d left home in search of
debauchery and another kind of freedom, he re-discovered Jesus and guns. A
drug deal in a fast food restaurant had gone awry and the Phareng was shot
at. When he awoke from a 48-hour surgery, the doctor who operated on him
told him he’d survived three bullets to the chest and abdomen. A fraction of an
inch either way or paramedics arriving a couple of minutes later, and he would

	  

5	  

The	  Phareng	  
	  

	  

	  

have died. When he went back home, his mother welcomed him back and
never mentioned his leaving. She forgave and forgot.
“What about your father?”
“He had passed away while I was gone and my mother did not have an
address or phone number to write or call.”
The progression to preacher was only natural. His mother and other
members of the church carved out a plan. The Phareng would study in a
seminary and on the completion of his course, would undertake a year-long
missionary project in a developing country. The Phareng chose Northeast
Tribal India.

The Phareng ate a different meal everyday. If lunch was red locallycultivated Khasi with beef stew and cucumbers, dinner would be dark-yellow
rice cooked in chicken blood with burnt pork or pork cooked with sesame
seeds. On a number of occasions after closing hours, the Phareng, Bah-Rit
and Mei-Duh’s son drank locally-brewed rice beer. Neither Bah-Rit or MeiDuh’s son overdrank for fear of embarrassing themselves in front of the
Phareng. A man whose approval we all sought for no other reason than the
exoticness of his skin colour.

The Phareng spent three months with us and not a day goes by where
his name, a thing he did and said, an anecdote he told is not retold. Each day
a thing he did and said, an anecdote he told is retold with features removed
and/or added. Each day a thing he did and said, an anecdote he told moves
further from what the Phareng actually was.

	  

6	  

The	  Phareng	  
	  

	  

	  

When he said that he wanted to meet my son, I recoiled for fear of the
Phareng seeing the condition of my two-room house. In the safe space and
comfort of where I work and serve people food, I could live in my tiny fantasy.
In the warmth of the three fires that cook food everyday from seven to seven, I
could lose myself in my TV shows and the lives of others. In the aroma of MeiDuh’s ‘Khasi Sha & Ja’ shop, I could stay fascinated in the life and story of the
Phareng.
But he persisted and I said yes. No sooner had I finished closing the
shop than I rushed to my mother’s to pick up my son and cook for the
Phareng.
When I opened the door, the attention of every house in my vicinity was on
the white man at my front door. In my love for clichés I wished the earth would
have swallowed me right there and then.
The Phareng brought gifts for my son who fell asleep as soon as I
finished breastfeeding him.
It delighted the Phareng when I served him roasted chicken with bread
I toasted and boiled vegetables. I called it a Ja Phareng. He did not want any
Sha.
Two months and three weeks after he left without a goodbye or a
warning, without a phone number or address, I cried. I did not need to go to
the doctor’s clinic. I did not need my mother to tell me so. Bah-Rit and the
regulars at the shop remarked on a glow my face had assumed. They
complimented the sparkle in my demeanour. And I craved the food that the
Phareng loved.

	  

7	  

The	  Phareng	  
	  

	  

	  

I did try. I searched for clues, for things that he left behind. I went to
the church and asked about the Phareng. They church leaders had no
relevant information to pass on. I spoke to the landlord of the house he
rented. I spoke to his neighbours. They could not tell me anything that I did
not already know.
My mother was helpful and non-judgmental. Bah-Rit and the regulars
at the shop as well. And to my surprise, Mei-Duh and her son, too. They let
me take days off and did not skim off the top and bottom of subsequent
salaries.
It was a Sunday when I held her for the first time. She was beautiful
and my mother said that she looked like me when I was born. Her hair wasn’t
as white as her father’s and her little bit of hair wasn’t as golden, either. She
was perfect.
The hospital was a shared room and I awoke from a round of sleep to
the sounds on the television that the patient in the bed beside mine had
settled on. I recognised the show. It was a park overlooking a magical bridge
and neat and colourful houses. A father and mother were holding their young
daughter and the father promised his wife and daughter that he would always
be there for them. The day before he left without a goodbye or warning, the
Phareng promised the same.

	  

8	  

The	  Phareng	  
	  

	  

	  

	  

9	  


