We had been sunbathing relentlessly that summer. Leslie’s skin
turned a beautiful golden shade. Her light brown hair streaked
with blonde. I burned the first week. While the red didn’t last
long, it never turned into the “bodacious tan” that Leslie had
promised. I quit using the Sun-In when it turned my hair a
horrendous orange. On a hot afternoon in early August, Leslie
stood and sprayed her head with the magical liquid. As she
shook her head around, some boys from the local high school rode
by and whistled at her.
“Losers,” Leslie said, rolling her eyes. I knew she liked the
attention, though. Leslie was wearing this tiny red bikini that
she’d saved up all of her babysitting money for months to get.
The new summer clothes were displayed at Rich’s long before
spring buds even sprouted from the ground and Leslie had ogled
the flawless mannequins through the storefront glass and swore
she would own one of those designer bikinis. The flowery onepiece bathing suit Leslie’s mother picked out for her daughter
was now crumpled at the bottom of her overnight bag just in case
her mother went into her drawers with freshly laundered clothes
while she was gone.
For a thirteen year old, Leslie was quite developed, or so she
liked for people to think. I was in on her secret, though.
Leslie stuffed Kleenex in her training bra. Her teeny tiny
excuse for a bathing suit was a little more high-tech, it had
little foam pads in the top, so she could go swimming in it and
she would still look well endowed. I knew she’d be in trouble
the day she got to second base with a boy. Then her secret would
be out. I certainly wasn’t there yet. I hadn’t even made it to
first base. Leslie regaled me with stories of her kissing Joey
Parker behind the school bus in the afternoons.
As we sat on lounge chairs in my front yard, scorching
ourselves, we talked about boys and our upcoming eighth grade
school year. We made a promise to buy matching shirts to wear on
the first day. We had seen ones that we liked in Seventeen –
cropped t-shirts that exclaimed “Girl Power”.
Dazed from the heat, we went inside to watch TRL on MTV. Leslie
unsuccessfully tried to call in to talk to Carson and request
her favorite song for what seemed like the millionth time that
week. During a commercial break I went in the kitchen to fix a
snack of buttery microwave popcorn and grabbed two Diet Cokes
from the fridge. Back in the living room Leslie was doing

crunches on the floor in front of the TV. I offered her one of
the Cokes, which she gladly accepted, but refused to eat any of
the popcorn. The look on her face told me that she didn’t think
I should be eating any of it either.
As the number one song began, Leslie’s mom called and said she
was on her way to pick her up. After Leslie went home, I went
upstairs to take a shower. I was blow-drying my hair while
listening to the Spice Girls on my cassette deck when I heard
the front door open.
My mom called up the stairs, “Alice, I’m home!” I ran a brush
though my hair and headed to the living room. My mom was leaned
back on the couch, sipping a can of beer while she thumbed
through the mail. I saw a McDonald’s bag stained with oil
sitting on the coffee table. “Hey, Momma. How was your day?” I
asked as I kissed her cheek.
Momma looked at me, weary-eyed, and said, “Just fine.” She
smiled weakly at me. She picked up the greasy bag of burgers and
we went into the kitchen. As I opened the fridge to grab myself
a diet coke and her another beer, my report card, filled with
A’s, caught my eye. It was held to the fridge with a magnet I’d
made years ago in school. It was ugly, really, but my parents
had kept everything I’ve ever made. My dad used to be the
sentimental one that kept all of my artistic efforts, but he
died in a car accident when I was nine.

Mom and I sat at the table in the breakfast nook, and began to
eat our burgers and fries in silence. I was almost done with
mine and already regretting the calories when Momma looked up
from her plate.
“Roxy’s gonna come stay with us for a while. Daphne is going to
Europe with this guy she’s been seeing.” Roxy, my cousin, was a
year older than me. I only saw her at Christmas. They lived in
Miami.
“I’ll pick her up at the airport tomorrow afternoon. I’ll have
to get off work early to do it,” Momma said, frowning.
I was excited to have Roxy come visit. Since she was older than
me, I had always looked up to her. I hadn’t seen her since
Christmas before last because she went to her dad’s apartment in
New York City last December.
“How long is she staying with us?”
2

Scorched

“It depends on what Daphne’s plans are. You know how my sister
can be.”
My mother sighed. I got the impression that Aunt Daphne and my
mom had both been pretty wild as teenagers. Aunt Daphne had
gotten pregnant with Roxy the summer after she graduated high
school. My mom must have cleaned up her act before she had met
my straight arrow dad. After he died, though, she started
partying a bit again… well, drinking alone in front of the TV
anyway. We used to bake together and garden, we even made pasta
from scratch once, but ever since the accident she seemed too
tired and sad to do much of anything but work and watch her
shows.
The next day I prepared myself for Roxy’s visit. I cleaned up my
room, cramming my beloved stuffed animals under my bed as far as
they would go. I kept changing my outfit until my room was a
fashion wasteland. I finally settled on jeans and a striped tank
top. Casual yet cool.
When Roxy and my mom finally got home, I was lying on the couch,
munching Doritos and reading Sweet Valley High. I sat up and
brushed the crumbs off my top just as they walked into the
living room. Roxy looked a lot different. Her heavily made-up
eyes made her look at least seventeen.
“’Sup, cuz?” When she spoke I could see metal glinting in her
mouth. I realized that it was a tongue stud. In all of my 13
years, I had never met anyone with that had their tongue
pierced. I found myself wondering what it would be like to kiss
someone that had one.
After a highly processed dinner of macaroni and cheese and
hotdogs, Roxie and I went up to the guest room so she could
settle in. Roxie told me how she was “kinda seeing” all these
boys back at home. It was so ironic, she said, that they all
drove Mustangs.
“Your mom lets you date old guys? No way!”
“They are not old, the oldest one is only nineteen. Mom doesn’t
care. She doesn’t give a rat’s ass what I do as long as she gets
her Xanax prescription on time.” To illustrate that point, Roxy
told me that her mom had caught her smoking cigarettes in her
bathroom, but “didn’t do shit about it.”

3

Scorched

The phone rang from downstairs, and I heard my mom call up the
stairs, “It’s for you, Alice!” I ran to my Mom’s room to pick up
her extension. I sat down on the edge of the bed as I reached
for the phone. Leslie was on the other end of the line.
“So, is it slumber party time?” Leslie asked me excitedly. I
swung my legs over the faded braided rug as instructed her to
bring her nail polish and face masks; we could do facials and
pedicures.
Once Leslie arrived, I might as well have left. She and Roxy
clicked immediately over their identical purses. They chattered
on and on about how hot Brad Pitt was and how Leslie looked
almost just like Sarah Michelle Geller as I sat quietly, picking
at my cuticles. Later, after I had painted my toes with a pretty
pale pink, Roxy said, “Too cutesy.” She and Leslie both opted
for the candy apple red.
After my mom went to bed, Roxy stuck downstairs and brought 3
beers back up. Leslie quietly clapped her hands, but I was in
disbelief. Surely my mom would notice them missing. Roxy assured
me that there were plenty left and that after the four she saw
my mom have over the course of the evening, she was sure she’d
never notice. The other girls drained their cans quickly, but
mine had grown warm by the time it was half empty. My first
taste of beer didn’t leave me yearning for more. Gross.
The beer bonded Leslie and Roxy further and neither of them
responded to my attempts at conversation. I fell asleep to
their giggling.
We slept until almost noon and then decided to continue our
ritual sun tanning. Being the last one out the door, I missed my
opportunity to get a chair. Instead, I spread my worn Mickey
Mouse beach towel out across the lawn and lay on my stomach, the
sun tingling the backs of my legs while the grass poked my
shins. After a few moments of silence, Roxy sat up, straddling
the lounge chair.
“So, what’s there to do? Is there a store around that we could,
like, walk to? I wanna get, like, a magazine.”
“There’s Colt’s,” Leslie said. Colt’s was at least a mile away.
It was a pretty far walk and plus we’d have to cross the
railroad tracks and walk through the projects. It was only
midday, though, so it would most likely be safe. I reluctantly

4

Scorched

agreed to the journey, knowing that my Mother would have a fit
if she found out.
Halfway there my flip-flops started blistering the sides of my
feet. I voiced a complaint, but both Roxy and Leslie shook their
heads in agreement that their feet were absolutely fine. I found
that hard to believe. I’d joined in on the make-up application,
but high heels just didn’t make sense.
As we walked down the street, a young guy was hanging around at
the corner, hollering, “What you need, what you need?” to
passersby. He took one look at us and said, “Hey, ladies!” But
he didn’t ask us if we needed anything. Roxy just tossed her
hair back over her bare shoulder and shook her butt around as we
walked past.
Finally we got to Colt’s and the blisters on my feet were red
and ripe. The store’s dim lighting cast shadows on the dusty
products on the shelves. The cool, refrigerated air felt
blissful on my sweaty skin after walking in the hot sun. I
plucked an ice cream Drumstick from the freezer. Roxy and Leslie
picked Diet Cokes out of the fridge. We walked over to the
magazine rack. Roxy picked up the latest issue of Cosmopolitan.
“Ten Ways to Wow Your Man,” Leslie said matter of factly,
reading from the neon orange and pink cover.
“It’s not rocket science,” Roxy replied with a sly smile.
In front of the store two guys stood next to a red sport coupe.
They were laughing and smoking cigarettes. Roxy sauntered over
to the guys, Leslie and I trailing behind her. One of them was
super tall; even in her glittery heels, Roxy only came up to his
chest. He had spiky, bleached hair that glinted in the August
sun.
“Could I bum a smoke?” The guy looked at Roxy for a minute
before handing her one. As he leaned forward to light it for
her, Roxy made sure that their hands touched for seconds longer
than necessary. She took a step back and stood there smoking her
cigarette, jutting her hip out like she was on a runway instead
of in the parking lot of Colt’s General Store. I thought it was
incredibly awkward standing there in the parking lot next to
these guys we didn’t even know, not saying a word. The day was
sweltering, and I was trying to eat my ice-cream before it
melted down my arm.

5

Scorched

Finally Roxy broke the silence. “I, like, love your ride. I’m
Roxy, and these are my girls, Leslie and Alice.”
“It’s a pleasure,” the guy said with a grin. The stud in his
chin reminded me of an angry arrow shot through a target.
“I’m sure,” Roxy responded boldly.
“So, I’m Damien. Y’all chicks should check out this party we’re
heading to tonight.”
“What time are you picking us up?” The sheer forwardness that
Roxy was talking to these guys with startled me. I had to admit
though, I was jealous of her confidence.
“Meet us here at nine.” With that Damien cocked his head,
signaling that the conversation was over. We girls walked off,
Roxy swinging her hips all the way.
When the guys were out of earshot, I said, “How can we go to
that party? I’m not allowed to go to parties, much less to
parties with random guys; random guys who drive.” Roxy and
Leslie looked at me as though my head had just turned into a
watermelon.
“We’ll tell your mom that we are going to have a slumber party
at…. somewhere,” Roxy began, but Leslie interrupted.
“Say Kelly Smith. We used to always go over there. And her mom
works late, so she won‘t be there when we get dropped off.”
The prospect of going to my first ever real party was exciting.
I was super nervous about lying to my mom though. And surprised
that Leslie could come up with such a deceitful story right off
the cuff.
“Well, that’s it. We’ll say we are staying with Kelly.” Roxy and
Leslie chatted all the way home about what they would wear and
how much fun it was going to be. As they giggled and schemed, I
was miserable; my blisters were beginning to hurt.
That afternoon, Roxy and Leslie fine-tuned the plan. When my mom
got home we were all sitting on the living room couch watching
The Real World. I wasn’t really watching it. I was picking at
the loose navy threads of the sofa. I walked into the kitchen
where mom was staring blankly into the freezer.

6

Scorched

“Mom, we are going to spend the night with Kelly Smith. We’re
just gonna do, you know, girl stuff.” My heart was beating out
of my chest.
“May we spend the night with Kelly, please?” Mom corrected. This
was not the time for an etiquette lesson. I knew that Roxy and
Leslie were rolling their eyes in the living room.
“Right, Mom, I mean, yes, Ma’am. May we, please?”
My Mother looked at me evenly. “Y’all will just be at Kelly’s
house, no plans to go anywhere else?”
“No, Ma’am. Just girl stuff.” I could hardly keep the tears from
welling up in my eyes. I had never lied to my mother.
“Well, then, of course you can, sweetie. I love you.” She kissed
me on the forehead.
“Love you too, Mom.”
Roxy and Leslie had smirks on their faces when I entered the
room. I blushed realizing that they had heard every word of mine
and my mom’s exchange. After a few more segments of catfights
and drunken revelry, the TV program ended signaling that it was
seven o’ clock.
We hung out in my room for a few minutes before emerging with
our pre-packed overnight bags. As we stood in my yard waiting
for Mom to come out with her misplaced keys, I could hear
children laughing, and further down the street, I could hear the
purr a lawn mower.
My Mom finally came out of the house, triumphantly, keys in
hand. We piled into her secondhand blue Dodge Neon. Hopefully,
it would be mine one day. When we pulled up in front of Kelly’s
house, it was dark except for the porch light. It made sense,
nobody knew we were coming.
“It doesn’t look like anyone is home,” Mom said doubtfully.
“Kelly’s mom cooks the dinner shift at Waffle House, you know.
Kelly said that she was going to get Ms. Albertson, you know,
the teacher, next door, to take her to the store to get some
snacks. She left the door open for us.” Leslie said.

7

Scorched

We got out of the car and started up the front walk. Leslie
turned so that she was blocking Mom’s view of the door knob. She
was waiting for us to make it safely inside. Roxy slickly took a
school library card out of her purse and expertly opened the
door.
When the door closed behind us, Roxy and Leslie burst into a fit
of giggles. I looked around nervously. I could not believe we
had broken into a house. The Smiths’ family portrait smiled at
me from above the mantle.
“Let’s make this quick, we don’t want to get caught.” We ran
upstairs and changed clothes. Roxy wore a leather mini with a
red tube top and her platforms. Leslie came out in a snake print
dress.
“Where’d that come from?” I asked.
“It’s Roxy’s,” she replied in a sing-song voice. I quickly
changed my outfit, and the girls finished applying a full mask
of make-up. Roxy’s kohl-smudged eyes looked heavy enough to
stretch her lids to her chin.
Roxy took one look at my ensemble and said, “Nice look.” Her
tone said the opposite. I looked down at what I had thought
looked pretty cute when my mom bought it for me at JC Penney.
The pants were plaid and flared, in monochromatic green. My top
was flirty, coming down into a deep V in the back. Doc Martins
completed the look. I had even seen a similar outfit in the back
to school issue of Seventeen. “School Girl Cool,” the caption
had said.
Once we had slipped back out of Kelly’s house, the glowing
numbers on my Timex told me that it was eight fifteen. We walked
down Sycamore Avenue towards Colt’s. We stashed our overnight
bags on the elementary school playground in a tree house.
It seemed as though we had been sitting on the curb in the dark
convenience store parking lot for hours when the guys finally
screeched to a stop in front of us. I could hear the music
playing before they even rolled down the windows. When they did,
a cloud of sweet-smelling smoke billowed out. Damien squinted as
he pulled his seat up so that the three of us could climb in the
back. We struggled to get somewhat comfortable among empty beer
cans and cigarette packs. I, of course, got stuck sitting in the
middle hump seat, which the guys, for some reason, referred to
as “riding bitch.” No one said a word, except Damien who said
8

Scorched

that this was going to be a “killer” party and that the music
blaring from the speakers was Rage Against the Machine.
As we pulled up in front of this huge, old, Victorian-style
house, I could see the sea of people standing on the front lawn.
I was impressed by the home and its manicured lawn. It was so
much bigger than my own cramped home with its peeling paint and
patchy grass. I knew that this kid’s parents must have been
bringing home a pretty penny. From the curb, I could hear bass
thumping and girls squealing.
We all piled out of the car, and Damien led the way to the front
door. He made a few stops along the way to dole out handshakes
and high fives. Roxy strutted along beside him, right at home. I
trailed along behind them cautiously wading my way through the
throng of people, careful not to get burnt by a cigarette
carelessly tossed aside by a partier’s flailing arm.
When I finally caught up with Roxy and the rest of them in the
kitchen, I realized that it was the place to be. At least thirty
people were crammed around the granite island. Every single
person in the room was holding a red plastic cup. In the center
of the room there stood both a keg and a tub of red liquid. It
had fruit floating in it like a melted Jell-o salad. I walked
over to Roxy and Leslie, trying to look nonchalant; they were
sipping their drinks and giggling between cigarette drags.
Neither of them had said a word to me since we had gotten into
Damien’s car.
“Have some hunch punch!” A heavyset guy in a Bob Marley t-shirt
thrust a red cup into my hands. I tried not to wince as I took a
sip. The drink was both cloyingly sweet and acerbic all at
once. I stood there, silent, with no one to talk to, and
thought about how I had gotten into this mess. If my mom found
out, I would be toast. To my left I could see Damien running his
fingertips over Roxy’s bare thigh. The smoke was getting to me.
I felt as though I was going to choke; I needed some fresh air.
I stepped outside onto the back patio where two girls were
comparing belly button rings.
When I went back inside, Damien and another guy were holding
Roxy upside down over the keg. When they finally put her down,
her eyes were glazed like a honey baked ham. She swayed to and
fro as Damien lit her cigarette. Leslie squealed, “Me next!” I
wandered out of the kitchen to look for a bathroom. On the way,
this guy holding the regulation red cup in one hand and a bottle
of Jim Bean in the other bumped right smack into me. His beer
9

Scorched

spilled all down my top. He mumbled something incoherent before
disappearing into one of the rooms. I hurried frantically to the
door at the end of the hall; it seemed most likely to be the
bathroom. I was so distraught about the beer spillage that I
didn’t even knock; I just pushed right through the heavy oak
door.
The room was bathed in an eerie light, as if it had been doused
in glow in the dark paint. At first my brain didn’t register
what my eyes were seeing. Two girls and a guy were standing
there, their pale privates in stark contrast to the dark room.
“Join in, or get out! No voyeurs!” The girl on the left looked
completely drunk. As she spoke, her teeth shone big and yellow
in the unflattering darkness.
My body went on autopilot. I turned and walked straight out of
the room and calmly closed the door. I could hear the guy’s
voice say, “Prude” through the wall. I sped down the hall and
down the stairs. I had to find Roxy and Leslie, so I could tell
them what I had just seen, and we could get out of there.
I looked everywhere for them, but there was no sign of either of
them or Damien. I finally gave up and sat back on the loveseat
in the sun room. It was somewhat quieter in there. The punch
had gone straight to my head and I was feeling emotional. I
couldn’t believe that all this was happening. I wished I was at
home. Silent tears began to slide down my cheeks.
A large photo album was perched on the coffee table in front of
me; I picked it up and ran my hands over the rich leather. I
cautiously opened the book. The first page was filled with
photos of a family camping trip. The mother was young and
pretty, all blond hair and rosy cheeks; she smiled sweetly. The
father’s arm was around the mother’s waist; he was handsome,
with sandy hair and perfect teeth. The couple’s children were
very young, angelic-looking twin boys whose eyes looked beyond
the camera.
My mind traveled to a long forgotten memory. My family went on
camping trip like that once. Back when my father was alive. We
stayed by the lake and toasted marshmallows in our campfire. My
mother and father both laughed when they saw how messy I was,
sticky with melted chocolate and gooey marshmallow. That night
we had eaten fish that my father had caught earlier. I had sat
with him while he waited for a bite. “Here it comes,” he’d shout
as he felt a tug on his line.
10

Scorched

My thoughts turned back to
pages of the album — happy
Christmases. The twin boys
pictures taken at football

the photographs as I flipped the
smiling pictures of birthdays and
grew taller and older. There were
games and school award programs.

I had always attended award programs with Leslie and her
parents; my Mom was always busy with work something. These boys
were so lucky to have such a perfect family.
After sitting alone in the sun room for awhile, I decided I
should try to find Leslie and Roxy again. As I walked through
the living room, I saw that the backdoor was ajar.
Through the crack, I could hear Leslie’s unmistakable laugh. I
always told her that she sounded like a valley girl.
I walked to the door and pushed it wide open. Sure enough, Roxie
and Leslie were out there, along with Damien and two blond, twin
guys; the little boys from the pictures. They were all passing
around a hand-rolled cigarette, but it didn’t smell like
tobacco.
Still standing in the door‘s threshold, I said “Didn’t y’all
take D.A.R.E. in school? Leslie, Roxy, y’all can’t be doing
this!” I surprised myself with the authority in the voice.
“Dude, chill out.” Leslie looked at me through blood-shot eyes.
I turned and began to make my way through the maze of people to
the front door. On the way, I passed a couple making-out against
the piano. I slipped out the door, and began walking into the
dark, balmy night. What was I going to do? In my head I
calculated the distance back to my house. Not too far, I could
do it if I had to, but I really didn’t feel like I could face
Mom right now. How could I explain all of this?
I didn’t make a decision right then, I just kept walking. After
about thirty minutes I found myself in front of the elementary
school. The tree house!
Wearily I trudged toward the tree house, eager to rest both my
feet and brain. My conscience was beating me up. I began to cry.
As tears ran down my face, I wiped them away and saw streaks of
black from all the make-up Roxy had applied to my face. I
thought about what a horrible daughter I had been. My mom would
be so disappointed in me. I cried myself to sleep there, curled
up on the tree house floor.

11

Scorched

I woke up to Leslie tapping on my shoulder. “Hurry up, we need
to get home before your mom gets back from her Saturday morning
grocery ritual. I opened my eyes, yawning. The sunlight seared
through the trees and shocked my face.
On the other side of the tree house, Roxie was taking off her
party clothes and putting on a t-shirt. Leslie began to do the
same.
“Don’t just stand there, change your shirt, Alice. You don’t
want to get caught, do you?” As Roxy said this, I noticed that
last night’s make-up was still on her face, smeared around the
eyes.
I looked Roxy in the eye boldly as I changed my clothes. “Don’t
you think that our faces will give it all away?”
Sarcastically, she responded. “Duh! Why do you think we are in
such a hurry to get home? To wash this shit off!”
We walked along in silence. Lost in thought, I swore to myself
that I would never lie to my mother again. I wouldn’t take
another drink until I turned twenty-one. When we were almost
home, I bent down to tie my shoe.
As I straighten up to continue down the street, something caught
my eye. Approaching the red light where we would cross the
street was a blue Neon. My mother! Oh my God, Oh my God! Don’t
look over, don’t look over. My heart was in my throat, beating
away, threatening to tear a hole through my esophagus.
As I was meditating on my silent prayer, the Neon started to
skid across the road and smacked into the lamppost. “Mom!” I
forgot all about my fears of punishment as I ran towards my
mother, terrified that I could lose her too.
It turns out that I was not the only one who had been out all
night doing things that I shouldn’t. As we sat on the sun-baked
curb waiting for the police, my mother told me regretfully, with
tears in her eyes, that she had spent the evening at the
Renegade, the local blue collar bar. As we hugged each other
tightly, she whispered, “I miss your dad.” I pulled away and
looked at her, her face more worn than I remembered, “I miss
you, Mom.”

12


