I  figured  the  police  would  come  looking  for  me  when  that  girl  disappeared.  I  
shouldn’t  say  “that  girl”-­‐-­‐her  name  is  Emily  Gustafson.  Her  parents  rent  the  same  
place  on  Runaround  Pond  every  summer,  the  red  house  that  looks  like  a  giant  letter  
A.  This  year,  though,  her  father  didn’t  come  up.  I  wondered  why.  I  notice  things  like  
that.  He  should  have  come  up  to  be  with  his  family.  
  
I’ve  lived  my  whole  life—all  twenty-­‐two  years—on  this  pond.  Daddy  couldn’t  afford  
a  house  so  him  and  me  and  my  older  sister  lived  in  a  trailer  on  a  dirt  road  across  
from  the  water.  My  momma  died  when  I  was  little.  I  don’t  remember  her  at  all.  
  
I  know  why  the  police  will  want  to  talk  to  me:  Two  years  ago,  they  suspected  I  killed  
my  sister,  Crystal.  I  didn’t,  but  they  suspected  I  did.  Why  do  people  always  judge  
other  people?  It’s  okay  to  think  the  best  of  somebody  until  they  prove  you  wrong.  
But  just  about  everybody  around  here  thinks  the  worst  of  me.  
  
My  sister  had  short  blonde  hair  and  green  eyes  and  her  cheeks  turned  as  red  as  
holly  berries  when  she  laughed.  She  dyed  a  bright  streak  of  pink  in  the  middle  of  her  
hair.  That’s  how  she  got  the  nickname  “Pinkie.”  She  loved  the  name.  She  used  to  dot  
the  “I’s”  with  tiny  teardrops.  I  miss  her.    
At  one  point,  even  my  daddy  thought  I  might  have  killed  her.  “Tell  me  where  you  hid  
her  body,  Cal,”  he  said.  “Or  I’ll  beat  it  out  of  you.”  He  hurt  me  good,  even  changed  the  
shape  of  my  nose,  but  I  didn’t  know  nothing  so  I  couldn’t  tell  him  nothing.  He  was  
always  hitting  Crystal  and  me.    I’m  different  from  most  people  so  I  probably  
deserved  to  be  whupped,  but  not  my  sister.  She  was  sweet.  It  made  me  angry  when  
Daddy  punched  her.  Boys  should  never  hit  girls.  

A  few  months  after  Crystal  disappeared,  Daddy  decided  he  didn’t  want  to  live  with  
me  no  more,  and  moved  to  Maine  without  me.  He  let  me  stay  in  the  trailer.  I  never  
heard  from  him  again.  And  I’ll  tell  you  this:  I  don’t  miss  him  at  all,  not  one  bit.  I  
especially  don’t  miss  him  punching  me  in  the  face,  his  army  dog  tags  jangling  around  
his  neck  every  time  he  swung.  He  said  Iraq  made  him  the  way  he  was,  but  I  think  it  
was  the  alcohol.  
  
I  like  living  by  myself.  I  can  watch  as  much  anime  as  I  want,  stuff  like  Lupin  III  and  
Mr.  Osomatsu.    I’m  really  good  at  fixing  small  engines—lawn  mowers,  snow  blowers,  
outboards.  It  pays  the  bills.  I  don’t  get  many  visitors—just  the  folks  dropping  off  
their  machines  and  picking  them  up  after  I  fix  them.  Except  now,  like  I  said,  the  
police  will  probably  pay  me  a  visit  to  ask  me  about  Emily  Gustafson.  
  
  
We’ve  vacationed  at  Runaround  Pond  for  seven  straight  summers.  We  love  New  
Hampshire  and  we  love  this  pond:  sipping  coffee  on  the  shore  and  watching  the  
morning  mist  burn  off,  enjoying  the  sun  set  over  Greenbush  Mountain.  There  is  an  
organic  smell  to  the  water  that  brings  up  memories  of  our  past  summers  here.  
  
My  husband  didn’t  come  up  this  year—I  should  say  soon  to  be  ex-­‐husband.  I  found  
out  that  S.O.B.  was  cheating  on  me.  Rob  spent  a  lot  of  time  on  the  road  wining  and  
dining  and  signing  up  clients.  Seems  a  female  client  was  looking  for  good  service  as  
well  as  good  products  from  Rob—and  he  generously  supplied  both.    
  
The  divorce  has  been  brutal  and  it’s  been  especially  tough  on  Emily.  I  had  hoped  
that  coming  up  to  the  pond  would  provide  her  with  some  stability,  some  routine,  but  
I  was  wrong.  She  said  she  missed  racing  her  father  out  to  the  raft.    We  got  into  a  
terrible  fight  today  when  she  told  me  that  she  thought  joint  custody  would  be  best.  
After  what  that  slime  ball  did?  I  told  her  over  my  dead  body.  He  was  never  around  
for  Emily  when  she  was  growing  up—and  the  fact  that  he  was  cheating  on  us  didn’t  
seem  to  bother  her.  There  was  no  way  I  was  ever  going  to  agree  to  joint  custody.  
  
Anyway,  Emily  stormed  off.  A  few  hours  passed,  and  when  she  didn’t  return,  I  
walked  the  neighborhood  looking  for  her,  calling  out  her  name.    I  asked  the  
neighbors  if  they  had  seen  her.    Do  you  know  how  desperate  that  makes  a  mother  
feel?  Once  it  turned  dark,  I  really  started  to  panic  and  called  the  Harmony  police.    

Chief  Connor  arrived  within  ten  minutes  and  he  has  been  helping  me  through  this  
since.  
  
At  approximately  2100  hours,  one  of  my  officers  received  a  phone  call  from  Mrs.  
Linda  Gustafson  who  reported  her  daughter  missing.    He  called  me  and  I  proceeded  
directly  to  the  cottage  to  interview  the  mother.  She  told  me  that  around  1600  hours  
she  and  Emily  had  a  fight  and  the  girl  had  taken  off.  
  
I  asked  for  a  photo  of  Emily.  The  girl  left  her  iPhone  behind—there’s  no  reception  in  
this  neck  of  the  woods.  The  mother  cycled  through  a  series  of  pictures  on  the  phone  
from  Emily’s  birthday  party  three  months  earlier.    
  
We  have  a  powerful  signal  back  at  the  station.  I  kept  the  phone  so  I  could  transmit  
photos  and  a  radio  alert  when  I  got  back:  sixteen  year  old  female,  five  feet-­‐five  
inches,  one  hundred  and  forty  pounds,  shoulder  length  black  hair,  hazel  eyes.  No  
scars,  tattoos,  or  distinguishing  marks.  Wearing  purple  Nike  sneakers,  blue  jeans,  a  
black  Taylor  Swift  tee,  and  a  purple  hoodie.    
  
I  spent  the  next  three  hours  walking  through  the  woods  and  along  the  shore  with  
my  flashlight,  shouting  Emily’s  name.  Nothing.  Still,  I  didn’t  want  to  think  the  worst.  
  

  

4  

Harmony  is  my  town,  okay?  It’s  a  quiet  town.  Not  much  happens  here.  My  two  
deputies  and  I  usually  spend  our  time  calming  down  the  Uncle  Ralphs  after  they’ve  
threatened  the  Aunt  Ednas,  or  locking  up  the  local  yahoos  throwing  punches  in  
Mucker’s  Grille,  or  returning  lost  dogs  to  their  owners.  That  sort  of  thing.    
  
My  first  thought  was  to  file  this  as  a  “juvenile”  Missing  Person  Case.  I  was  pretty  
sure  we  were  dealing  with  a  runaway,  and  not  an  abduction.  Emily’s  safety  zone  was  
small.  How  far  could  she  get?  She  had  no  phone,  no  credit  cards,  and  just  the  clothes  
on  her  back.  I  suppose  she  could  have  gone  out  to  Route  7  and  hitched  a  ride,  but  
she  didn’t  strike  me  as  reckless  given  how  her  mother  had  described  her.  
  
No,  at  the  time,  I  believed  we  were  dealing  with  a  girl  who  was  nearby  and  hiding  
just  to  punish  her  mother.  That  is,  until  I  found  the  purple  hoodie  half-­‐submerged  by  
the  shore.  When  I  saw  the  blood  on  it,  my  heart  sank  like  a  concrete  block.    
  
I  returned  to  the  cottage  and  Mrs.  Gustafson  confirmed  the  sweatshirt  was  Emily’s.  
She  became  distraught.  I  told  her  I  would  return  at  first  light  with  a  bunch  of  
volunteers  and  a  couple  of  dogs  to  conduct  what  we  call  a  “systematic  search.”    
  
I  also  told  her  I  believed  Emily  was  probably  asleep  under  a  tree  and  we’d  find  her  
in  the  morning.  What  I  didn’t  tell  her  was  that  I  was  also  calling  in  a  dive  team,  and  
listing  her  as  an  “endangered”  missing  person  because  she  could  be  in  harm’s  way.  I  

  

5  

had  no  idea  what  was  going  on.  Abduction?  Suicide?  Either  way,  the  situation  looked  
to  be  serious.  
  
Mr.  Rudy  Constantine  
Nothing  exciting  ever  happens  here  in  Harmony,  so  I  got  pretty  pumped  up  when  
the  chief  called  to  tell  me  he  was  assembling  a  search  party  and  wanted  me  to  be  
part  of  it.  Here  was  a  chance  for  me  to  get  involved  in  some  police  work.  I  joined  him  
and  a  dozen  or  so  other  guys  at  the  designated  field  site—a  gouged-­‐out  gravel  pit  
about  a  quarter  mile  from  the  pond  and,  more  important,  away  from  the  house  that  
the  missing  girl’s  mom  was  in.    
  
Not  long  into  the  search,  one  of  my  neighbors  suggested  that  maybe  Cal  Costa  had  
taken  the  girl.  I’m  sure  the  police  had  the  same  thought.  About  two  years  ago  Crystal  
Costa—her  nickname  is  “Pinkie”  cuz  of  the  streak  in  her  hair-­‐-­‐  vanished.  The  police  
found  her  clothes  next  to  the  pond.  They  suspected  her  brother  Cal,  but  they  never  
found  her  body,  and  could  never  prove  anything.    
  
Cal  Costa’s  father,  Joe,  was  a  big  cuss.  Collected  all  kinds  of  junk  on  his  property.  
Heavy  drinker.  Stayed  inside  the  trailer  most  of  the  time.  After  Pinkie  went  missing,  
he  apparently  decided  he  didn’t  want  to  live  there  any  longer.  Moved  to  Maine-­‐-­‐at  
least  that’s  what  Cal  said.    
  

  

6  

My  first  reaction  was  that  it  wasn’t  right  for  the  dad  to  leave  Cal  to  fend  for  himself  
because,  well,  the  kid’s  a  bit  different  upstairs-­‐-­‐if  you  know  what  I  mean.  You’d  
never  know  it  because  he’s  actually  not  bad  looking:  tall,  thin  shouldered,  short  
black  hair.  But  it’s  those  eyes  that  spook  people.    He  rarely  makes  eye  contact,  but  
when  he  does,  it’s  unnerving.  His  eyebrows  form  a  black  V  which  makes  his  face  
seem  darker  than  it  really  is.  
  
But  never  mind  that,  Cal  has  been  able  to  support  himself—he’s  a  whiz  at  fixing  
engines.  Funny  how  the  mind  works,  am  I  right?  His  trailer  could  catch  on  fire  and  it  
wouldn’t  occur  to  him  to  run  outside,  but  damn,  he  can  take  any  engine  completely  
apart  and  reassemble  it  without  a  users  manual.  Fixed  my  outboard  and  snow  
blower  as  good  as  new.  
  
Me  and  the  neighbors  spent  the  better  part  of  the  day  hunting  for  clues  in  the  woods  
around  the  pond.  The  state  police  were  in  a  boat  dragging  the  shallows  with  hooks,  
and  a  dive  team  was  in  the  water.  Another  skiff  had  a  sniff  dog  perched  up  front  like  
a  masthead.  Those  dogs  have  an  incredible  sense  of  smell.  They  can  detect  corpses  
beneath  the  water  surface.  Amazing!  Am  I  right?  
  
I  had  a  feeling  that  with  so  many  people  out  looking  so  quickly,  we  were  going  to  get  
lucky  and  find  something.  I  was  right.  Around  four  in  the  afternoon,  we  got  the  news  
from  Sergeant  Mullins:  the  divers  found  a  body.    Suddenly  I  didn’t  feel  so  lucky.  In  

  

7  

fact,  I  didn’t  feel  good  at  all.  I  wasn’t  sure  what  to  do  next,  so  I  said  a  prayer  it  wasn’t  
the  body  of  Emily  Gustafson.    Or  Pinkie  Costa.  
  
State  Police  Sergeant  Thomas  Mullins  
Even  though  Runaround  Pond  is  unusually  deep,  a  side-­‐sonar  scan  picked  up  an  
anomaly  on  the  bottom,  and  my  divers  went  down  to  check  it  out.  The  water  is  clear  
because  the  pond  is  spring-­‐fed,  and  there’s  little  vegetation  on  the  bottom—light  
can’t  penetrate  that  far  down.  They  found  the  remains  in  the  deepest  part  of  the  
pond,  in  about  eighty  feet  of  water.  
  
The  body  had  been  there  for  some  time,  years  likely,  so  we  knew  it  wasn’t  Emily  
Gustafson.  We  thought  it  could  be  the  Costa  girl.  The  troubling  thing  is  we  knew  we  
were  dealing  with  a  homicide:  a  length  of  Class  3  safety  chain  tethered  the  skeleton  
to  a  ten-­‐horsepower  Evinrude  motor.    
  
I  directed  the  dive  team  to  keep  searching  for  the  Gustafson  girl,  while  I  called  for  a  
recovery  team  to  bring  up  the  body.  Once  the  body  broke  the  water  surface,  we  got  
our  first  break—a  set  of  dog  tags  wrapped  around  the  neck.  
  
It  took  only  two  phone  calls  to  confirm  the  tags  belonged  to  Joseph  Costa.  That  put  
our  suspicions  squarely  on  his  son,  Calvin.  We  were  aware  of  the  rumors  that  he  
might  have  killed  his  sister  two  years  earlier.  He  had  told  people  that  his  father  had  

  

8  

relocated  to  Maine,  which  was  obviously  a  lie  because  we  found  him  under  eighty  
feet  of  New  Hampshire  water.  I  wondered  what  else  he  was  lying  about.    
  
Once  Joe  Costa’s  remains  were  on  their  way  to  the  coroner’s  office,  I  proceeded  
directly  to  the  Costa  trailer  on  the  hill.    I  couldn’t  wait  to  question  the  suspect.  Chief  
Connor  had  told  me  he  had  stopped  by  the  trailer  earlier  but  the  boy  wasn’t  around.  
I  approached  the  premises  from  the  pond  side,  hoping  to  gain  the  element  of  
surprise.  Turns  out  that  I  was  the  one  who  was  surprised:  there,  behind  the  trailer,  
standing  next  to  a  clothesline,  were  Calvin  Costa  and  Emily  Gustafson.  Let  me  tell  
you,  there’s  no  better  feeling  for  someone  in  law  enforcement  than  to  find  a  missing  
person  alive!  
  
Ms.  Emily  Gustafson  
I  heard  my  mother  shouting  my  name  yesterday,  but  I  was  so  mad  at  her,  I  stayed  
hidden  and  didn’t  answer.  I  wanted  to  hurt  her  so  bad.  She’s  so  controlling,  so  
possessive.  She  wants  sole  custody  of  me,  but  I  should  have  a  say  in  my  future  and  I  
still  want  to  see  my  dad.  I  know  his  cheating  on  my  mom  was  wrong,  but  that  stuff  
happens.  Most  of  my  friends’  parents  are  divorced  or  soon  will  be.  
  
After  mom  and  I  fought,  I  started  walking  through  the  woods,  and  kept  going  even  
after  dark.  At  one  point,  I  couldn’t  see  where  I  was  going  and  fell  into  a  big  tangle  of  
brambles.  I  cut  my  hand  up  pretty  good.  As  I  was  wiping  the  blood  on  my  sweatshirt,  

  

9  

I  had  an  idea:  why  not  leave  the  bloody  hoodie  by  the  pond?  That  would  be  sure  to  
shake  my  mother  up.  
  
I  threw  my  sweatshirt  down  and  then  hiked  to  the  other  side  of  the  pond.  I  found  an  
open  shed  behind  a  yellow  trailer  and  stayed  there  all  night.    Next  morning,  the  guy  
who  lives  in  the  trailer  came  out  and  found  me.  At  first,  I  was  scared,  but  then  he  
called  me  by  my  name.  He  told  me  his  name  was  Cal.  He  said  he  knew  I  vacationed  
on  the  pond  every  summer.  He  said  I  was  pretty.  Nobody’s  ever  told  me  that  before.    
He  asked  me  if  I  wanted  some  tea.  He  said  he  knew  I  liked  it  because  he  would  see  
me  dunking  a  tea  bag  by  the  shore  on  cool  mornings.  So  I  went  inside  the  trailer  and  
he  made  us  some  tea.    
  
He  told  me  that  people  misjudge  him,  that  kids  at  school  had  always  been  mean  to  
him,  and  that  his  father  used  to  regularly  beat  both  him  and  his  sister.  He  said  his  
sister  Pinkie  ran  away,  his  dad  moved  to  Maine,  and  he  lived  by  himself.  
  
I  felt  bad  for  him.  We  were  both  trying  to  shake  off  bad  family  experiences.  I  told  
him  that  my  parents  were  getting  divorced.  We  talked  for  a  long  time.  I  got  the  sense  
he  was  really  listening.  He  showed  me  his  comic  books  and  we  watched  some  anime  
DVDs.  He  made  me  a  bologna  sandwich  and  then  told  me  I  would  eventually  have  to  
go  back  to  my  mother.  I  told  him  I  wasn’t  ready  to  go  back,  that  I  liked  being  with  
him,  which  made  him  smile.  He  doesn’t  smile  a  lot  and  his  eyes  get  weird  when  he  

  

10  

looks  at  you.  He  said  I  could  stay  another  day,  that  he  liked  having  me  around  
because  I  reminded  him  of  his  sister.  
  
Later  that  morning,  we  saw  the  police  chief’s  car  pull  into  the  driveway,  so  we  hid  in  
the  woods.  The  chief  looked  around  the  yard,  peeked  in  the  windows.  We  figured  we  
were  safe  when  he  got  back  in  his  police  car  and  drove  off.  
  
That  afternoon,  Cal  showed  me  a  cool  thing:  he  half-­‐filled  several  squirt  guns  with  
different  color  paint,  added  some  water  to  them,  and  then  sprayed  the  paint  onto  a  
white  sheet  he  had  draped  across  the  clothesline.  He  made  these  awesome  designs.  I  
loved  making  all  those  weird  patterns.  In  fact,  that’s  what  we  were  doing  when  I  
spotted  a  man  with  a  big  bushy  mustache  walking  up  the  hill  towards  us  from  the  
pond.  When  I  saw  his  State  Police  jacket,  I  knew  we  were  in  trouble.  Cal  rushed  over  
to  me,  grabbed  my  hand,  and  yanked  me  into  the  trailer.    
  
We  waited  inside  for  an  hour  and  nothing  happened.  No  knocks  on  the  door.  I  
eventually  peeked  out  the  window  and  saw  a  bunch  of  men  in  vests  and  helmets  
holding  big  guns  hiding  behind  trees.  I  admit  I  was  scared,  mostly  because  I  had  no  
idea  what  was  going  to  happen  next.  
  
State  Police  SWAT  Team  Leader  Steven  Hardy  
By  1730  hours,  we  had  the  trailer  perimeter  secured,  and  we  knew  Emily  Gustafson  
and  Calvin  Costa  were  inside  the  home.  Sergeant  Mullins  told  us  that  he  observed  

  

11  

the  boy  drag  the  girl  into  the  trailer  after  he  spotted  them,  so  we  assumed  the  worst:  
we  had  a  hostage  situation.    
  
I’ve  done  my  fair  share  of  hostage  negotiations.  We  minimized  all  background  
distractions—road  noise,  radio  chatter,  other  people  speaking.  I  was  prepared  to  
keep  my  voice  firm,  treat  the  hostage-­‐taker  with  respect,  keep  my  speech  slow  and  
calm,  and  look  to  build  rapport.  
  
I  grabbed  the  bullhorn:    “This  is  State  Police  Trooper  Steven  Hardy,”  I  said.  “I’m  here  
to  listen  to  you  and  make  sure  everybody  is  safe.  Mr.  Costa—Cal—would  you  please  
let  Emily  come  outside.”  
  
I’ll  tell  you,  my  body  heaved  a  sigh  of  relief  when  that  door  opened,  and  she  stepped  
out.  I  directed  her  to  walk  slowly  towards  me.    
  
“He  didn’t  do  anything  to  me,”  the  girl  said.  “Please  don’t  hurt  him.”  
  
“You’re  doing  great,  Cal,”  I  said.  “Now,  would  you  please  slowly  open  the  front  door  
with  your  left  hand,  and  keep  your  right  hand  on  your  head?  When  you  step  outside,  
put  your  left  hand  on  your  head.  Then  I’d  like  you  to  kneel  on  the  ground.”  
  
  “You’re  going  to  shoot  me,”  he  yelled  through  the  window.  
  

  

12  

I  said:  “We  have  no  intention  of  harming  you.  We  recovered  a  body  from  the  pond.  
We  believe  it’s  your  father.  We’d  like  to  talk  to  you  about  what  might  have  
happened.”  
  
“I  didn’t  kill  him,”  he  said.  
  
I  reassured  him  that  we  were  not  accusing  him  of  anything,  that  we  just  wanted  to  
talk.  
  
A  few  moments  later,  the  door  opened  and  he  stepped  out  with  his  hands  on  his  
head.  He  yelled:  “Emily,  don’t  let  them  hurt  me.”  
  
I  directed  him  to  kneel.  He  did.  But  when  two  of  my  men  began  walking  towards  
him,  he  panicked,  and  screamed:    “Why  are  they  still  pointing  their  rifles  at  me?”  
Then  he  reached  into  his  pocket  and  pulled  out  the  gun.  
  
“Drop  the  weapon,”  I  shouted  at  him.  The  boy  froze.  
  
I  yelled  a  second  time  to  drop  the  weapon.  Then  a  third  time.  
  
Instead  of  dropping  the  gun,  though,  he  stood  and  raised  it  and  my  men  immediately  
opened  fire.  It  wasn’t  until  I  stood  next  to  the  young  man’s  body  that  I  realized  the  
gun  wasn’t  real.  It  looked  real—like  a  black  German  Luger—but  then  I  saw  the  pink  

  

13  

trigger  and  the  green  paint  coming  out  of  the  nozzle.  I  mean,  what  were  we  
supposed  to  do?  What  were  we  supposed  to  think?  The  crazy  kid  came  at  us  with  a  
squirt  gun!  
  
Ms.  Crystal  Costa  
I  notice  you’re  looking  at  the  streak  in  my  hair.  Yeah,  I’m  Pinkie.  I  know  you’re  the  
reporter  who  wrote  the  newspaper  articles  about  my  brother  Cal.  That’s  why  I  
decided  to  contact  you.  This  is  all  off  the  record,  right?  You  can’t  use  any  of  this.  
Agreed?  Okay.    
  
I  was  shocked  that  the  police  killed  my  brother.  How  senseless!  I  mean,  he  was  
harmless,  you  understand?  First,  people  thought  he  might  have  killed  me.  Obviously,  
he  didn’t,  because  I’m  here  talking  to  you.  Then  people  thought  he  might  have  killed  
Emily  Gustafson.  Obviously,  he  didn’t;  she’s  back  with  her  parents,  although  she’s  
gonna  be  messed  up  for  a  while  after  watching  my  brother  get  blown  away  like  that.  
People  still  think  he  killed  our  daddy.  Well,  it’s  time  to  set  the  record  straight—at  
least  with  you.  
  
The  truth  is,  one  day  I  got  fed  up  with  daddy’s  beatings  and  ran  away.  I  never  told  
Cal  what  I  was  up  to.  I  dropped  some  of  my  clothes  by  the  shore  of  the  pond  so  folks  
would  think  I  went  swimming  and  drowned.  Then  I  raced  over  to  Route  7  and  stuck  
out  my  thumb.  Within  ten  minutes,  I  was  sitting  in  the  cab  of  a  semi  headed  to  
Maine.  

  

14  

  
I  hooked  up  with  some  kids  my  own  age  who  were  living  in—I  guess  you’d  call  it  a  
commune.  We  made  money  picking  for  the  growers:  strawberries  in  June,  corn  in  
August,  apples  and  cranberries  in  the  fall.  One  of  the  kids  I  met  was  named  Danny.  
We  fell  in  love.  It’s  Danny’s  baby  I’m  carrying  right  now.    
  
A  few  months  later,  once  I  was  sure  the  police  had  stopped  looking  for  me,  I  
returned  to  Runaround  Pond  with  Danny.  We  waited  until  midnight  before  heading  
to  my  daddy’s  trailer.  I  figured  he’d  be  dead  drunk  by  then.  He  was.  That  swill  pot  
was  sprawled  across  the  couch.  He  was  snoring  as  loud  as  a  chainsaw,  and  the  room  
reeked  of  booze  and  butts.    
  
Just  as  I  was  about  to  whack  my  daddy’s  skull  with  the  tire  iron  a  third  time,  Cal  
appeared  in  his  bedroom  doorway.    I  hugged  him,  told  him  to  go  back  to  bed,  to  
forget  he  saw  me  or  Danny,  that  we  were  making  sure  Daddy  never  hurt  him  again,  
and  that  if  anybody  asked  where  Daddy  was,  to  tell  them  he  moved  to  Maine.  Daddy  
rarely  left  the  house,  so  I  figured  folks  would  think  nothing  of  it  when  they  didn’t  see  
him  around  any  more—and  they  sure  didn’t.    
  
Danny  and  me  brought  Daddy  down  to  the  pond  and  put  him  in  a  skiff.  I  wrapped  a  
chain  around  his  leg  and  tied  him  to  a  rusted  outboard  motor  that  Cal  hadn’t  gotten  
around  to  fixing.  I  rowed  the  boat  to  the  middle  of  the  pond.      
  

  

15  

Would  you  believe  my  daddy  woke  up?  How  sweet  was  that?  I  squeezed  his  cheeks  
together  and  made  him  look  me  in  the  eyes.  
  
“Remember  me,  Daddy?”  I  asked.    I’ll  never  forget  his  frightened  eyes  bugging  out  
like  white  marbles.  
  
“You’re  a  bad  man,”  I  told  him.  “You’ll  never  beat  me  or  Cal  again.  Are  you  ready  to  
meet  your  Maker?”    He  lunged  for  me,  but  I  jumped  back  and  laughed  in  his  face.  
  
“But  first,”  I  said,  “We  need  to  wash  away  your  sins.”  I  stood  on  the  seat  and  rocked  
the  boat  until  it  capsized.  While  I  floated  back  to  shore  clinging  to  the  skiff,  Daddy  
and  the  outboard  dropped  to  the  darkest  depths  of  that  pond.  I  ducked  my  head  
under  the  surface  a  couple  of  times  hoping  to  hear  his  screams  traveling  through  the  
water.  Didn’t  hear  anything,  though.  Too  bad.  
  
Look,  I  loved  my  little  brother.  I  realize  most  people  in  Harmony  believe  he  killed  
Daddy,  and  they  suspect  he  killed  me.  But  I  knew  the  police  would  never  find  any  
evidence  that  he  killed  anybody,  so  I  was  sure  he  wouldn’t  go  to  jail.  I  know  I  could  
set  the  record  straight  right  now  on  both  scores  and  clear  his  name,  but  frankly,  that  
won’t  bring  Cal  back,  and  it  certainly  wouldn’t  be  in  the  best  interests  of  my  child’s  
future.  No,  I  think  it’s  best  to  just  let  things  be.  Whether  it’s  a  boy  or  a  girl,  I’m  gonna  
name  my  baby  after  my  brother.  I  think  that’s  about  the  best  thing  I  can  do  right  
now.  Don’t  you?  

  

16  


