Matthew had been so cold during the past few months that Anna was beginning to
feel weighed down with despair. What had she done wrong? How had she failed to live
up to the impossible standards of wifely virtue that Matt seemed to expect? She felt like
an automaton, wound up to perform the myriad tasks of parenthood, wifehood, and her
other, paid job, and on the whole she believed she was making a pretty fair fist of it all.
The kids had been behaving well. She couldn’t think of any infringement, any challenge
to his authority or lowering of standards.
Which made Matt’s coolness hard to understand. It wasn’t consistent, that was
one of the problems. In bed he was as keen as ever, however tired she was. She didn’t
mind that. She liked sex; and if she drifted off now and then he didn’t seem to notice.
The fact that he still wanted sex was reassuring.
It was the lack of verbal communication that was worrying her. He’d never
wanted to hear about her days at work, but that was okay; he liked the money coming
in, she did know that. But he wouldn’t talk to her about his own work, either, and she’d
had to learn from the wife of one of his colleagues that he’d been promoted. When she
suggested that they go out to celebrate he’d curtly refused, though of course affording it
wasn’t an issue. It was deeply worrying.
Anna tried talking to his mother, with whom she’d always got on well, but she’d
had nothing to offer. ‘He’s just the same as usual,’ she’d said. ‘Is it work, do you
think?’
Anna had shaken her head. If it was something at work that was bothering him he
wasn’t about to talk about it. Not to her. And, apparently, not to his mother.
Matters didn’t get any better, and after weeks of this the children were beginning
to tiptoe around him, desperately quiet and unnaturally polite. Anna felt sorry for the
little things, but what could she do? There hadn’t been any games out in the yard for
months, now that she thought about it, and he’d always liked chucking a ball about with
them, and listening to their reading. He’d seemed to, anyway. Anna was beginning to
question the very foundations of their family life.
Then one Sunday morning over breakfast Matt cleared his throat and spoke to her.
‘I thought we might go out to dinner. We haven’t been for a while and that new
Italian place has had excellent reviews.’
Anna was astonished. Her birthday was coming up and it looked as if he’d
remembered. ‘Yes, fine,’ she said, careful not to sound too enthusiastic: Matt despised
what he called ‘gushing women’. ‘That sounds good. When?’
‘We can leave the kids with Mum. Make a night of it.’ He looked over and smiled
at her, leaving her disconcerted: she’d been invisible to him for so long that she was
suddenly conscious of her unwashed hair and lack of makeup.
‘Who would you like me to ask?’ Matt liked to go out with another couple or two;
it made conversation easier, and that way they got to sample more of the dishes.
He gave her a long, silent look. ‘No. Just the two of us, I thought.’
Anna’s heart gave a jump. This could be the breakthrough! Whatever the trouble
had been, was it over now? With fast-beating heart she dared to hope. ‘When? Do you
want me to book?’ She was the one who made all their social arrangements.
‘No. Leave it to me.’
Still feeling unreal Anna smiled at him, but his attention was back on the
newspaper. ‘Fine,’ she said, knowing he wasn’t listening. ‘That would be great.’
He’d booked for the Saturday before her birthday, which fell on a Monday this
year, and made arrangements with his mother to have the children overnight. He even
managed to tell her in time for her to have her hair done and think about what she’d
wear.
While they were dressing he was more abstracted than usual but Anna was so
excited and relieved that nothing had come up to interfere with the outing that she
scarcely noticed. They were going out together somewhere special, and things would be
just like they’d always been before Matt had gone all quiet and moody. As they left the
house she found she was humming La Vie en Rose; and as Matt, looking unreasonably
handsome in his best suit, held the front door open for her she smiled at him, feeling her
love for him well up in her heart. But he didn’t smile back.

After Matt parked the Beamer he handed her the car keys. He always expected her
to drive home after they’d been out, but she didn’t mind. The restaurant was crowded,
of course, on a Saturday night, abuzz with conversations, glittering with beautiful
people. Buoyed up by her happiness, Anna felt herself to be the equal of any of them as
she followed the Maître d’ to their table and let him fuss over her. She’d always enjoyed
Italian men, and Matt was observing the mild flirtation with the quiet gravity that she
loved.
When they were settled and supplied with menus and the wine list she reached
across the table and laid her hand on his. ‘Thank you for tonight,’ she smiled. ‘I really
appreciate it.’ But he scarcely glanced up from the wine list to acknowledge that she’d
spoken. Mentally, she slapped her wrist: Matt’s concentration on the task in hand had
always been absolute, and choosing their wine was a serious business.
She turned her attention to the menu. Her copy didn’t include the prices and for a
moment she was disconcerted: what if the things she chose were the most expensive?
Matt didn’t like extravagance. Then she shrugged it off. What the hell. They hadn’t
been out for months, and this was her birthday treat.
She wondered what present he’d bought for her. Would he give it to her tonight,
as part of the evening’s festivities? Or would he keep it until Monday morning, perhaps,
after they’d made love; or make the presentation over breakfast? Suddenly it really did
begin to feel like her birthday. Last year he’d given her a pair of diamond earrings. The
stones were tiny, but they were real diamonds, and it was the thought that counted. She
was wearing them tonight … had he noticed?
She ran her eyes down the page. It all sounded wonderful. Seafood first, maybe?
She settled on the Spiedino di Grandi Pesce, skewered seafood morsels served with
polenta; to be followed by … yes, quail. Italians treated the little birds so well. For the
pasta course she’d sample their pumpkin ravioli; she’d tried making this herself once,
but it hadn’t been a rousing success.
After taking her order the waiter poised to take Matt’s. Matt was smiling in his
urbane way and letting the Italian roll off his tongue as if he actually spoke the
language. ‘I’ll have the Anguilla alla Demetria,’ he said, ‘If the eel’s really fresh?’
The waiter bowed his head. ‘Si, signor.’
Matt nodded. ‘And the duck liver risotto, followed by …’ he hesitated for a

The Birthday Gift

4

moment, brow furrowed with the difficulty of making the choice, ‘Fagiano al Tartufo.’
He snapped the menu shut and handed it to the waiter, looking pleased with himself.
Anna had resisted the temptation to order the pheasant for herself: with truffles it
had to be exorbitantly expensive, but if her husband was going to have it, she regretted
the decision. She caught the waiter’s eye. Should she change her order now, before it
was too late? This was her birthday dinner, after all. But habit kicked in and she
remained silent, simply smiling at the waiter as he left their table. The quail would be
delicious.
The food came and Anna began to be sorry that there wasn’t another couple with
them; Matt was as silent as he’d been at home, and even his appetite seemed to have
deserted him. As she licked the last of the quail’s garlic butter from her fingers she
realised that he was staring at her, his pheasant untouched. She wondered whether she
had butter all over her face.
‘Anna,’ he started to speak, then seemed to choke. ‘Anna …’ He took a breath and
leaned forward, playing with his knife. ‘Anna, this is very difficult for me …’
No, this wasn’t about the way she looked. What the hell was he on about?
He cleared his throat. ‘Anna, I’ve fallen in love … with someone else. I’m leaving
you.’ He was very white. She looked at him with total astonishment while she struggled
to take in what he’d said.
Then, as if a veil had been lifted, she saw that the man seated across the table from
her was a stranger, and in a moment of startling clarity she realised that her Matthew,
the man she’d loved and thought she knew so well, had been gone from her for months;
that this stranger was the reality. A tiny spark of anger began to burn: this man was
telling her this here, in this crowded restaurant, so she wasn’t likely to make a scene.
The anger flared but she kept it under control. Tomorrow she’d have a better idea
how she felt about all this, but right at this moment the pieces were all falling into place
with deafening inevitability. Of course, he was leaving. Of course, he’d had another
woman … for how long? Somewhere in the tangle of emotions was the dawning of
relief, like sunlight breaking through clouds. ‘I see,’ was all she said, surprising herself
with her coolness.
He seemed disconcerted by her response and rushed into the silence. ‘Elizabeth’s
pregnant.’

The Birthday Gift

5

Of course she was.
Anna stared at the plate of pheasant cooling in front of her husband. It was wasted
on him. She pushed aside her own plate, empty but for the clean bones of little birds,
and reached across to take his. The pheasant looked and smelled wonderful, and slowly
and deliberately she began to eat it. She’d never had black truffles before and wasn’t
sure at first whether she was disappointed in them, but the pheasant itself was utterly
delectable. When she’d finished she glanced up at Matthew. He was still staring at her,
white around the nostrils—not a look that became him—with that fixed expression on
his face that told her he didn’t know what was going on but couldn’t admit that he
wasn’t in control.
‘Well,’ Anna said, ‘that was delicious.’
The waiter came and took the empty plates and poured more wine; Anna smiled
thanks at him and turned to her husband.
‘Well, Matthew, if you’ve made up your mind, there’s nothing more to be said.’
She watched his face as she spoke. ‘I’m assuming you’ve moved out of the house as of
now.’ She picked up the car keys and jangled them. ‘I’ll drive the Beamer home. I’ll
need the bigger car, with the children. You can pick up my Suzi in the morning, and all
your clothes. Make it … eleven o’clock.’
He was still staring at her, looking stunned. What had he expected? That she’d
weep all over the tablecloth? Tear her hair? Take him home to bed with her, after that?
She took a deep breath and, with calculated dignity, rose from her chair, smiling
graciously at the waiter holding it for her. To Matthew, she inclined her head: ‘I know
you’ll understand if I leave now.’
The Maître d’ had materialised beside her. ‘Signora,’ he murmured. ‘Is everything
…?’
‘Grazie,’ she smiled pleasantly at him. ‘Everything’s fine. I won’t wait for
dessert. The gentleman will be staying a little longer, I think.…
On her way out to the carpark Anna felt the beginning of excitement. This
changed everything. It wouldn’t be easy—she could already imagine the problems she’d
have fitting everything into her days without Matthew there to help, not that he’d been
much help in recent months. It would be a challenge.
But her overwhelming emotion was one of relief: she wouldn’t have to tiptoe

The Birthday Gift

6

around her own house, eternally compromising her wishes to accommodate Matthew’s
dictates; she was free now; free to stretch, and grow, and to help her children to grow
with her.
Still savouring the lingering aftertaste of the pheasant—and the truffles—Anna
unlocked the Beamer; and as she opened the door and slid onto the leather seat a new
thought bloomed, filling her heart with joy: he might not know it, but Matthew had just
given her the best birthday gift she could possibly have imagined.
Forget diamond earrings: he’d given her her life back.

The Birthday Gift


