No  one  thought  that  there  was  anything  different  about  Emery  Peabody.  Nobody  
noticed  that  his  eyes  were  a  bit  too  close  together  or  that  his  left  foot  pointed  
slightly  outward  when  he  walked.  Emery  Peabody  was  your  average  5’6  white  male,  
brown  tousled  hair.  He  wore  a  lot  of  polos,  and  came  from  a  very  middle  class  
family.  Emery  Peabody  fought  in  the  Iraq  war,  and  when  he  got  out  he  continued  on  
to  social  work.  His  office  was  plain  and  often  too  cold.    His  workplace  prior,  the  
desert,  had  been  hot  and  most  of  his  days  had  been  haunted  by  loud  eruptions  and  
dusty  air.  Emery’s  surroundings  changed  a  lot.  Nobody  had  thought  much  of  Emery  
Peabody  at  all.  Who  would’ve  thought  an  interview  of  him  at  Mountain  View  Medical  
would  go  viral.  Who  would’ve  thought  that  I’d  be  here  listening  to  it?    
“I’m  going  to  let  you  in  on  a  secret.  I’ve  never  told  anyone  this  story  before.  I  guess  
it’s  kind  of  how  I  got  here.  I  don’t  really  think  anyone  would  understand,  maybe  
that’s  why  I  keep  it  to  myself.  I  wasn’t  always  in  trouble…  I  used  to  be  the  one  who  
kept  others  out  of  it.  I  was  a  soldier  first,  social  worker  second.  My  mother  came  to  
me  crying  yesterday,  begging  me  to  explain  to  her  where  she  went  wrong.  I  don’t  
think  she  did  anything  wrong,  I  don’t  think  anyone  did  anything  wrong.  
I  guess  I’ll  begin  this  story  at  the  time  when  my  obsession  first  started.  It  was  all  an  
accident  really.  I  left  a  window  open  in  my  kitchen,  the  screen  had  been  broken,  and  
I  awoke  to  not  one,  but  two  birds  dancing  in  my  living  room.  They  were  so  
distressed,  but  so  beautiful  while  being  so.  At  first  I  was  confused,  and  nervous  that  
one  might  try  to  attack  me.  I  guess  I  didn’t  want  them  to  leave  me.  My  position  at  the  
department  of  social  services  had  been  split  into  two,  and  I  had  been  left  with  the  
on-­‐call  job.  They  only  depended  on  my  attention  two  to  three  times  a  week,  and  
what  else  did  I  have?  I  had  been  so  lonely,  I  hated  to  admit  it,  but  I  had  been.  I  
decided  to  keep  the  birds.  They  were  loud  sometimes,  and  they  knocked  over  a  lot  of  
my  shit.  I  soon  realized  what  I  could  and  couldn’t  keep  in  my  house.  Fruit  on  the  
counters  was  a  bad  idea,  and  I  rolled  up  my  nice  oriental  carpet  to  save  it  from  all  
the  shit.  Plants  were  also  a  no  unless  I  wanted  soil  and  leaves  strewn  throughout  the  
house.  Both  birds  were  female  robins,  I  wondered  if  they  were  ever  jealous  of  the  
males  and  their  bright  red  feathers.  The  girls  were  stuck  with  such  a  pale  color;  it  
wasn’t  anywhere  near  as  attractive.  But  I  liked  it.  They  gave  me  something  to  look  
forward  to  every  time  I  came  home  from  work,  and  every  time  I  woke  up.  Until  I  
woke  up.  It  was  a  Saturday,  and  as  soon  as  I  exited  my  dreams  I  realized  that  the  
normal  morning  songs  were  either  too  quiet  or  missing  altogether.  I  groggily  made  
my  way  downstairs  to  see  what  was  going  on.  The  first  thing  I  spotted  was  the  
blood,  it  wasn’t  much,  but  it  clashed  greatly  with  the  white  carpeting  that  stopped  at  
the  end  of  my  stairs.  My  heart  began  to  race  quickly,  and  I  turned  the  corner  
unprepared  for  what  I  was  to  see.  The  little  demons  head  was  cocked,  looking  at  me  
as  if  she  was  saying  “Got  a  fucking  problem?”  Beneath  the  one  female  was  the  other,  
slain,  on  her  side,  both  eyes  gouged  out.  There  was  bird  blood  on  my  floor  and  on  
the  beak  of  the  murderer.  In  a  fit  of  rage  and  confusion  I  grabbed  the  broom  that  
was  propped  up  against  the  fridge.  I  chased  the  thing  around  my  house  for  what  
seemed  like  eternity.  Its  evil  chirps  of  death  rang  throughout  my  home  like  they  
owned  the  place.  This  continued  until  finally  the  thing  took  a  unique  turn,  and  flew  
down  into  my  basement.  I  stood  at  the  top  of  the  stairs,  broom  in  my  hand,  peering  
through  the  darkness.  The  only  time  I  had  been  down  there  was  when  I  had  moved  
in,  just  to  look  at  the  stone  dungeon  that  it  withheld.  I  wasn’t  even  sure  why  or  how  
the  door  had  been  opened,  all  I  knew  is  that  it  shouldn’t  have  been.  I  slammed  the  
door  shut  as  hard  as  I  could,  and  wouldn’t  open  it  again  until  my  passions  took  
flight.    
I  pondered  and  paced  for  too  long.  I  missed  all  of  my  scheduled  work  appointments  
and  never  took  a  call.  At  night,  and  only  at  night,  I  could  swear  that  I  heard  the  
robin’s  song  clearly.  It  was  beautiful  and  haunting  all  at  the  same  time.  I  wondered  
what  it  meant.  Wondered  if  it  was  about  me.  I  researched  how  long  it  should  take  a  
bird  to  die  without  food  or  water.  Tops  three  days.  Well,  now  it  had  been  multiple  
weeks  and  I  still  felt  its  presence.  I  had  dealt  with  loss  before,  and  I’d  even  killed  in  
the  war.  However,  I  couldn’t  shake  this  feeling  of  darkness  accompanied  by  beautiful  
song.    
I  needed  to  drown  out  the  noise.  So,  I  added  to  it.  I  had  the  realization  one  morning  
about  a  month  after  the  incident.  I  ran  through  my  house,  opening  every  window  
and  popping  the  screens  right  out.  I  flung  open  my  back  door  and  let  the  breeze  hit  
me  like  an  epiphany.  I  was  going  to  happy,  I  was  going  to  be  normal  again.  I  had  run  
down  the  street  to  the  locally  owned  drugstore.  I  wasn’t  even  sure  if  it  had  a  name,  
the  only  sign  out  front  was  just  of  a  big  “RX”.  At  the  unnamed  drug  store  I  had  
bought  all  of  the  birdseed  that  they  had  on  the  shelf,  which  was  only  three  bags.  The  
young  girl  at  the  counter  gave  me  a  funny  look  when  I  went  to  check  out,  and  kept  
popping  her  gum,  it  bothered  me  even  after  I  left.  It  was  a  beautiful  summer  day,  and  
I  realized  that  I  hadn’t  appreciated  any  of  it  until  now.  I  couldn’t  remember  a  time  
when  I  felt  that  I  enjoyed  nature.  The  last  time  I  spent  extensive  time  outside  was  
during  the  war,  but  that  was  in  the  desert.  Maybe  that’s  why  I  didn’t  really  favor  the  
sun  anymore.  I  thought  about  the  therapy  that  had  been  offered  to  me  when  I  got  
back  to  the  states,  they  said  it  would  be  free,  and  I  may  even  be  able  to  get  special  
benefits.  I  didn’t  want  to  deal  with  it,  but  maybe  I  should  have.  Maybe  I  wouldn’t  
have  had  to  deal  with  all  the  stupid  drama  at  the  office.  I  still  couldn’t  believe  that  
they’d  give  me  the  fucking  shit  job,  after  five  years.  Come  on.    
When  I  made  it  back  home  there  was  still  nothing  different,  no  birds,  no  life  had  
ventured  in.  I  thought  of  how  clever  I  was  to  use  bait,  and  ripped  open  the  first  bag.  I  
sprinkled  some  seed  on  the  windowsills  first,  but  not  too  much.  I  didn’t  want  them  
to  stay  there  and  attract  attention.  I  continued  to  sprinkle  the  seed  into  my  living  
room,  but  again  not  too  much.  I  put  the  most  by  the  outside  of  the  basement  door.  I  
heard  the  singing.  It  was  beautiful,  and  calm.  I  felt  as  though  I  was  being  tricked,  or  
lured  just  like  these  birds.  No,  this  bird  was  a  demon,  a  monster.  I  opened  the  door,  
and  as  quickly  as  possible  I  disposed  the  rest  of  the  seed  into  the  dungeon.    

Now,  I  waited.  I  sat  on  my  dark  green  sofa  that  had  belonged  to  my  father  and  
opened  up  a  book.  But  it  was  too  hard  to  focus.  I  realized  that  I  must  be  somewhat  
still  to  make  this  place  welcoming  to  any  visitors.  I  wondered  if  the  other  birds  
would  be  able  to  sense  what  I  did.  How  could  they  not?  They  were  smart,  intuitive  
creatures.  They  knew  when  a  storm  was  coming,  and  could  steer  clear  of  it  fairly  
easily.  I  thought  that  I  was  lucky  that  the  robin  only  still  sang  at  night,  or  else  surely  
it  would  warn  the  other  birds.  Or,  maybe  it  would  want  them  here,  so  it  could  deface  
their  corpses  as  well.  The  thought  unnerved  me,  and  I  wasn’t  sure  if  that’s  what  I  
wanted.  But  I  needed  to  sleep,  needed  to  get  rid  of  the  murderous  song,  even  if  it  
meant  more  noise.  My  thoughts  were  interrupted  by  a  change  to  my  right.  If  I  had  
not  been  waiting  it  was  a  noise  that  I  probably  would’ve  ignored-­‐  one  of  those  
natural  movements  caused  by  who-­‐knows-­‐what.  But  I  knew.  I  tilted  my  head  gently  
to  get  a  view  of  the  creature.  A  small  dark  colored  finch  perched  itself  on  my  
windowsill,  its  head  bobbed  as  it  engulfed  the  seeds  that  I  had  provided.  Happiness  
flooded  my  veins;  the  presence  of  another  life  was  in  my  home  once  again.  It  didn’t  
take  long  for  others  to  notice  the  food,  and  to  feel  comfortable.  The  more  birds  that  
took  interest,  the  more  they  attracted.  Soon  the  amount  of  seed  on  each  of  the  
windows  was  beginning  to  diminish.  My  plan  was  working.  The  creatures  began  
their  journey  into  the  house,  with  caution  at  first.  Many  of  them  turned  their  heads;  
but  their  beating  eyes  seemed  to  never  leave  my  position  on  the  couch.  I  sat  still,  but  
my  heart  pounded.  I  wondered  if  they  could  sense  the  movement  in  my  veins.  I  
knew  how  intuitive  some  creatures  were.  These  birds  must’ve  been  blinded  by  their  
stomachs,  for  they  quickly  began  to  enter  my  home.  There  were  so  many  different  
kinds.  I  had  thought  I  knew  many  species,  but  this  experience  showed  me  very  
quickly  that  I  had  limited  knowledge.  There  were  large,  medium,  and  small,  and  the  
colors  ranged  from  dark  browns,  yellows,  reds,  white,  and  blues.  I  suddenly  wished  
that  I  were  documenting.  I  should’ve  set  up  a  camera  on  the  mantel  above  the  
fireplace.  I  should’ve  researched  later  which  species  introduced  themselves  to  me.  
Now  it  was  too  late,  I  couldn’t  move  unless  I  wanted  to  ruin  everything.  There  was  
no  doubt  in  my  mind  that  if  I  were  to  lift  so  much  as  a  finger  the  creatures  would  
take  flight  all  over  my  home  and  find  their  ways  out  through  the  windows.    I  thought  
back  to  the  war.  I  remembered  a  mission  in  the  middle  of  the  summer.  We  were  in  
the  desert,  and  the  Middle  Eastern  air  was  extremely  hot  and  dry.  Our  mission  was  
to  obtain  information,  which  we  could  only  do  by  getting  close  to  the  enemy  and  
tapping  radios.  I  had  been  with  three  men,  Jones,  Booney,  and  Frederick.  Our  task  
was  dangerous,  and  one  wrong  move  could  give  us  away.  We  camped  out  in  the  
desert  only  five  miles  away  from  our  target,  and  during  the  day  we  would  climb  into  
the  hills  to  get  the  signals  we  needed.  There  was  one  morning  when  we  awoke  to  
foreign  sounds.  Humans.  Luckily  they  had  been  in  the  distance  and  we  had  just  
enough  time  to  take  shelter  behind  brush  where  our  stillness  decided  our  fate.  We  
weren’t  found  that  time,  but  later  I  heard  about  Frederick  getting  blasted  during  a  
similar  experience  a  couple  years  later  after  I  was  already  out.  I  thought  about  him.  I  
wondered  what  had  happened,  had  he  sneezed?  Breathed  too  heavily?  I  hoped  to  
god  I  that  wouldn’t  do  either.  I  knew  better,  I  had  better  control.  That  was  why  I  was  
still  here.  There  was  something  so  magical  about  the  position  that  I  was  in.  I  had  so  
much  power.  I  controlled  the  fate  of  many  with  minimal  effort.  My  plan  progressed  

just  as  I  wanted  it  to.  Birds  began  to  disappear,  hopping  gently  through  the  doorway  
and  into  the  darkness  of  the  basement.    
I  need  a  glass  of  water,  is  that  all  right?  I  wont  say  anymore  until  you  get  me  one.  I’m  
only  given  three  a  day  but  if  you  want  to  know  what  happened  you’ll  have  to  up  it  to  
four.  
Thanks.  
I  miss  my  home.  Even  when  it  was  empty  there  was  something  nice  about  having  
your  own  space.  I  didn’t  do  very  well  living  in  my  parents  home  though.  I  think  I  
liked  not  having  anyone  to  tell  me  what  to  do.  I  liked  taking  a  shower  at  2am,  and  
eating  whatever  I  pleased  regardless  of  the  sodium  and  fat  levels.  My  mom  was  a  
health  freak,  just  like  the  people  here.  They  make  me  take  so  many  vitamins  it’s  
unnerving.  Someday  I  might  just  become  a  big  ol  vitamin,  or  a  vegetable.    
Thanks  for  the  water;  I  suppose  you’ll  want  to  know  what  happened  now.  
Well,  they  all  hopped  right  on  into  my  basement.  A  couple  of  them  flew  off  when  
they  had  eaten  their  fill,  but  that  was  OK.  I  had  so  much  company  that  a  few  didn’t  
matter.  When  I  felt  that  the  room  had  been  filled  with  the  most  I  would  get,  I  stood  
slowly.  There  were  still  some  pigeons  making  their  way  around  in  my  living  room,  I  
didn’t  want  their  reaction  to  alert  my  guests  downstairs.  At  first  the  pigeons  cocked  
their  heads  and  stared  at  me  with  their  black  beady  eyes.  How  I  hated  them.  How  
they  reminded  me  of  my  poor  robin  and  her  murderer.  My  motivation  strengthened  
in  these  moments  and  my  heart  told  me  to  act  quickly.  To  hell  with  my  gentle  
nature.  I  stood  straight  up,  and  as  the  pigeons  took  flight  in  my  home,  knocking  into  
bare  white  walls  struggling  to  find  an  exit,  I  felt  as  if  I  were  walking  on  air.  I  took  
swift  and  long  strides  to  the  cellar  door,  which  I  slammed  as  hard  as  I  could  when  I  
saw  dozens  of  creatures  flying  towards  me.  In  the  process  I  had  clipped  a  wing,  half  
of  it  stuck  out  into  the  hallway,  while  the  other  half  was  still  attached  to  a  mad,  
panicking  bird  in  the  basement  stairwell.  I  couldn’t  help.  I  walked  away,  out  of  my  
house,  just  to  get  some  air.  
I  wasn’t  gone  very  long.  My  stroll  earlier  that  day  had  inspired  me  to  get  out,  
something  that  I  rarely  ever  did.  I  didn’t  see  a  single  bird  in  the  neighborhood.    
When  I  returned  I  was  horrified  by  the  amount  of  shells  and  seed  on  the  floor.  I  
didn’t  like  things  out  of  their  place,  so  I  swept.  The  loud  chirps  from  the  basement  
cheered  me  on.  I  got  to  the  door,  where  the  dusty  blue  wing  still  protruded.  I  knew  it  
was  now  dead.  Kind  of  like  me,  the  stress  of  the  day  had  made  me  so  tired,  so  I  went  
back  to  the  couch.  Something  inside  of  me  felt  so  very  empty,  I  had  done  what  I  had  
needed,  but  now  what?  It  seemed  that  life  had  come  to  a  halt,  and  I  felt  so  very  
lonely  even  with  all  of  the  life  beneath  my  feet.  
I  began  to  nod  off,  but  not  for  long.  Soon  I  would  hear  a  knock  at  my  door.  But,  I  
thought,  it  is  past  four,  and  the  mail  never  comes  later  than  that.  I  began  to  feel  
panicky,  and  wondered  if  someone  was  seeking  revenge  on  me  for  my  mistake.  I  
grabbed  something  from  the  kitchen  for  protection,  and  went  to  the  door.  Upon  
opening  I  saw  that  it  was  just  my  neighbor,  whose  name  I  never  knew  and  still  
cannot  remember.  I  know  that  his  hair  was  dark;  he  was  older,  smaller  than  average  
but  had  a  bit  of  a  gut.  I  believe  he  said,  “hi,  uh  I  know  we’ve  never  appropriately  met,  
but  I  just  thought  that  I’d  check  on  you..”  I  must’ve  looked  confused  because  he  
continued  right  away,  “There  is  excessive  noise  coming  from  your  basement,  and  it  

sounds,  very  odd.  Do  you  think  some  animals  may  have  gotten  in  there?  You  might  
want  to  call  animal  control,  my  cousin  actually  works  for  the  department.”  I  shook  
my  head,  unsure  of  what  to  say,  what  to  do.  This  could  ruin  everything.  I  thought  
quickly,  “Noise?  I  haven’t  heard  anything.”  Of  course  he  must’ve  thought  that  I  was  
crazy.  “What,  really?  Maybe  I’ve  gone  mad.  This  may  be  odd,  but  would  you  mind  if  I  
just  take  a  peak  in  your  basement?  I  could’ve  sworn..”  A  lightbulb  went  off  in  my  
head,  something  exploded,  something  warm  and  happy  dispersed  in  my  soul.  “It’s  a  
mess  in  here,  I’d  hate  to  have  that  be  your  first  impression  of  me.”  I  said  innocently.  
The  man  shook  his  head  and  chuckled,  “Least  of  my  worries!  It’ll  just  help  me  sleep  
tonight  if  I  know  no  poor  animal  is  stuck  down  there.”  I  stepped  aside,  letting  my  
arm  drop,  motioning  my  acceptance  of  his  entrance.  I  slid  the  kitchen  knife  into  the  
waistband  of  my  Levis.  He  walked  quickly,  but  I  could  sense  him  surveying  my  
home.  Nothing  looked  out  of  the  ordinary,  and  so  he  seemed  trusting.  Something  
odd  began  playing  in  my  mind.  I  felt  as  if  an  orchestra  were  performing  just  for  me.  
Maybe  it  had  just  been  all  of  the  birds,  and  maybe  it  wasn’t  just  for  me.  “Man  
something  is  definitely  down  there!”  My  neighbor  turned  around  to  show  his  
expression  of  concern.  I  still  shrugged  my  shoulders,  “are  you  sure  you’re  ok?”  he  
shook  his  head  in  disbelief,  and  went  for  the  door,  seeing  the  wing  he  said  shakily,  
“shits  not  right,”  he  turned  the  knob.  I  got  ready.  He  pushed  the  door.  I  moved  closer.  
Birds  flew  at  us,  I  pushed  him  hard.  I  slammed  the  door,  turned  the  lock,  listened  to  
his  screams  for  only  a  moment,  until  they  conformed  to  sound  just  like  another  
chirping  bird.    
I  came  to  the  conclusion  that  the  birds  would  eat  him  alive.  When  the  seed  was  gone,  
they  would  rip  apart  his  flesh  with  their  sharp  beaks.  They  would  feast  until  there  
was  no  more,  and  that  is  when  they  would  die  as  well.  The  neighbor  had  elongated  
the  process,  but  it  was  ok.  I  felt  whole  again,  maybe  that’s  what  I  had  been  missing.  
There  had  been  more  of  a  purpose,  and  I  had  found  it.  The  noisy  neighbor  had  to  go.    
Oh,  that’s  all?  You  don’t  want  to  hear  more?  Why  not?  Isn’t  this  what  gets  you  guys  
off?  Don’t  you  love  hearing  the  details,  trying  to  get  me  in  for  more  time  than  what  
I’ve  already  got?  Hahahaha.  No  I  don’t  want  more  vitamins,  stop  trying  to  make  me  
take  them.  Let  me  rot  then,  why  should  my  life  go  any  other  way?  Hahahaha.  I  
couldn’t  save  Benny,  and  I  couldn’t  save  my  robin,  I  can’t  save  myself!  They  wont  let  
me  outside.  They  say  that  when  I  see  the  birds  I’m  not  “normal.”  What  the  fuck  is  
normal.  I  see  my  neighbor,  black  holes  for  eyes,  nose  completely  caved  in.  A  bloody  
mess  in  my  basement.  Someone  reported  the  smell.  They  never  would’ve  got  me!  
Hahahaha.  Never  would’ve  known  if  it  didn’t  reek  so  bad.  I  didn’t  mind  it  much,  it  
kept  my  mind  going,  kept  me  feeling  full.  I  didn’t  need  another  fix,  and  I  couldn’t  
hear  my  robin’s  murderer  any  longer.  But  now,  hahahah  it’s  okay.  I  don’t  want  to  go  
back  there  anyways,  don’t  let  me  be  alone.  Please  don’t  let  me  go  back  there.  I  like  it  
here.  I’m  never  alone.  I’ve  got  so  many  birds,  and  they  all  get  along.  They  don’t  kill  
each  other.  We  get  along.  We’re  all  here  together.  Make  sure  they  don’t  take  my  
birds  away.  “  
That’s  where  Emery  Peabody’s  tape  ended.  
  
  


