It  was  as  if  someone  had  triggered  a  million  tiny  staples  into  the  back  of  his  neck;  
like  a  bite  from  a  great  white.  The  lightning  struck  a  transformer  before  ricocheting  
and  striking  the  nape  of  his  neck.  He  had  been  taking  Lela,  the  families  Shiatsu,  out  
to  the  bathroom  when  the  unfriendly  bolt  of  electricity  gave  Joe  a  slap  to  the  back  of  
the  head.  The  pain  was  overwhelming.  The  electricity  fried  his  hair  to  gray  ashes  
and  his  tongue  went  numb  inside  his  mouth.  His  body  shook  is  a  spasmodic  seizure  
before  he  fell  to  the  ground.  His  eyes  rolled  around  twice  before  turning  white  and  
his  right  leg  continued  to  twitch  while  the  rest  of  him  went  limb.  Black  and  white  
smoke  hung  around  his  head  like  the  end  of  a  cigarette;  like  deathly  smog.  Joe  was  
lucky  to  be  alive.    
  
At  first  doctors  weren’t  sure  if  Joe  would  ever  be  able  to  talk  correctly  again.  
His  family  was  just  thankful  he  had  survived;  the  same  can’t  be  said  for  little  Lela.  
The  zapping  current  of  electricity  traveled  through  Joe,  through  the  leather  leash  
and  barbequed  the  dog’s  neck  by  way  of  the  chain  collar.  The  Shiatsu  that  had  once  
been  white  had  been  zapped  and  burned  into  a  charred  blackish  color.  The  Vet  said  
that  death  had  occurred  instantly  for  the  pup.    
  
Joe  did  talk  again,  in  fact  had  no  problem  at  all  other  then  the  blistery  burns  
and  annoying  rash  that  wrapped  around  his  neck  and  chest  from  the  medication  the  
Doc  prescribed  for  the  pain.  Joe  was  recovering  superbly.  All  was  fine  as  wine.  Until  
five  weeks  after  the  accident.  A  bold,  dark  thunderstorm  had  coming  rolling  in  full  of  
pride.  The  bombs  of  thunder  were  so  loud  they  seemed  to  shake  the  house.  Audrey,  
Joe’s  wife,  took  no  time  in  noticing  Joe  wincing  in  pain  and  holding  his  bald  scalp.  
“It  just  a  migraine  Aud.  I’ll  be  fine.”  He  said  in  a  painful  moan.  
“Joseph  I  think  we  should  make  you  an  appointment.”  She  insisted.  
“Stop  nagging  me!”  He  barked.  “Its  just  the  noise  hurting  my  head.  I’ll  be  fine.”  
And  he  was  fine,  that  is  until  the  next  time  that  clouds  of  thunder  and  
lightning  came  marching  in  and  making  a  ruckus.    
The  next  three  years  would  be  a  bad  stretch  for  Joe.  Sixteen  months  after  he  
miraculously  lived  through  being  struck  by  lightning,  on  a  rainy  day  in  April,  Joe’s  
wife  and  son  died.  And  although  Jonesy  had  been  born  by  the  lightning;  and  there  
for  every  headache,  that  was  the  first  night  he  grew  a  voice.    
  
The  Painkiller  Joe  thought.  He  could  already  hear  Jonesy’s  voice  whispering  the  
words.  He  rubbed  his  bald  scalp  in  an  effort  to  smooth  out  the  pain.  The  excruciating  
aches  in  his  head  started  when  the  first  clash  of  clouds  came  screaming  through  
their  living  room  walls.  He  sat  slump  in  the  queen  size  bed  with  a  pillow  over  his  
head.  He  had  retreated  to  the  upstairs  guest  room  as  soon  as  some  stuck-­‐up  bitch  
had  walked  in  and  mentioned  the  start  of  the  rain  outside.  A  loud  crash  of  thunder  
woke  him  from  his  temporarily  catatonic  state  he  had  fled  into.  Liz  would  be  
worried  about  him  soon,  he  still  knew  that  much.  But  now  he  can’t  seem  to  collect  
any  meaningful  thoughts.  Its  as  if  he  has  lost  his  barrens  inside  his  mind.  Jonesy  
must  be  up  to  no  damn  good.      

Joe  slowly  gets  out  of  the  bed  and  stands  up.  He  sways  a  touch  from  side  to  
side  then  closes  his  eyes  and  pinches  the  bridge  of  his  nose,  trying  to  regain  his  
equilibrium.  He  can’t  remember  why  he  came  up  here  in  the  first  place.  With  that  
first  strike  of  lightning  sent  a  living  nightmare  into  Joe’s  mind,  he  remembers  that  
much,  but  the  pain  in  his  head  has  temporarily  erased  the  memory  of  it.  Dreams  
always  seem  to  have  a  significant  importance  when  you  can’t  remember  them.  He  
tries  to  forget  about  the  night  he  lost  his  wife  and  son  and  he  desperately  tries  to  get  
rid  of  the  headache.  A  vague  mist  of  intuition  keeps  whispering  in  his  poisoned  brain  
that  the  nightmare  might  have  been  about  that  tragic  night.      
On  nights  like  tonight  he  has  tried  to  literally  beat  the  aches  out  of  his  head.  
He  once  smashed  his  skull  on  a  bedpost  resulting  in  an  instant  blackout.  That  didn’t  
work,  his  head  only  hurt  worse.  That  particular  headache  didn’t  stop  until  he  went  
out  at  night  to  get    “The  Painkiller”  as  Jonesy  calls  them.  Three  hours  later  the  
painkiller  finally  kicked  in  and  did  its  thing.  That  particular  night  he  was  able  to  
ward  of  Jonesy  and  only  a  stray  cat  got  hurt.      
The  aspirin  sometimes  helps  but  never  really  gets  the  job  done.  He  needs  a  
heavier  dosage  of  a  painkiller  to  stop  the  terrible  headaches  that  have  developed  
ever  since  Jonesy  was  created  on  the  night  of  the  lightning  accident.  Going  to  the  
doctor  would  be  useless  despite  what  Liz  thinks.  The  medical  field  doesn’t  have  the  
proper  painkiller  to  get  rid  of  his  nasty  headaches.  Dr.  Nava  might  try  some  mind  
reading  shit  on  him;  the  dopey  physiatrist  would  never  prescribe  him  the  right  stuff  
only  good  the  shrink  would  do  is  give  him  a  prescription  for  some  quake-­‐ass  dope.  
So  Joe  is  forced  to  get  his  own  in  his  own  way  with  his  own  painkiller.  He  needs  the  
right  kind  of  medicine  to  take  away  the  pain  but  it’s  not  like  he  can  just  go  to  the  
doctors  or  a  CVS.  It  either  endure  the  excruciating  onslaught  of  pain  until  the  storm  
passes  or  find  “The  Painkiller”.  
***  
In  a  living  room  with  two  terror  toddlers,  is  the  last  place  that  Rose  should  be  on  a  
Friday  night.  Rose  should  be  out  flirting  with  Chris  O’Connor  the  staring  point  guard  
for  the  Shore  Blue  Devils  at  Malcolm’s.  Her  friend  Bradley  and  rick  are  playing  with  
their  band  tonight.  The  Five  Fevers  are  good  and  Bradley  is  a  magician  on  the  
drums.  Instead  of  watching  these  two  snot-­‐noses  eat  their  boogers,  she  should  be  
sharing  a  burger  and  fries  with  Chris  and  playing  with  his  drumstick.  If  it  weren’t  for  
her  stuck-­‐up  parents  she  would  be  to.  All  the  others  kids  in  school  are  getting  help  
with  their  near  future  college  loans.  Like  big  deal  that  her  parents  are  helping  her  by  
co-­‐signing  on  her  student  loans.  Like  they  are  doing  her  a  big  favor.    
A  senior  in  high  school  and  having  to  babysit  on  a  Friday  night  in  the  summer  
is  bullshit.  What  a  blowjob.  She  thought  sitting  on  the  living  room  couch.  
And  that’s  exactly  what  this  was  pretty  much,  a  blowjob.  In  fact  she  rather  be  
giving  Can’t-­‐see-­‐my-­‐own-­‐dick-­‐Frank  Walsh  from  biology  a  B-­‐J  instead  of  being  with  
these  two  little  snot-­‐nose  brats.  Fat  Frank  was  the  biggest,  fattest  kid  in  school.  Rose  
had  to  be  his  lab  partner  once  when  he  had  a  case  of  ringworm  on  his  neck.  Between  
that  and  the  hairy  mole  that  was  planted  on  his  right  upper  check  she  wanted  to  
vomit.  But  tonight  with  these  two  little  brats  to  watch,  even  Fat  Frank  sounded  more  
appetizing  then  having  to  watch  these  the  two  demons.  

Rose  had  no  choice.  She  needed  money  for  college.  So  babysitting  and  waiting  
on  tables  all  summer  long  would  be  her  biggest  thrills.  Yeah  sure  she  should  be  
partying  and  pre-­‐gaming  for  the  college  frat  parties  she  planned  on  being  a  part  of.  
But  for  the  most  part  life  sucked.    
“Jason  and  Zach  lets  go  brush  your  teeth.”  She  told  the  two  boys  that  were  in  
the  middle  of  building  a  tower  with  Mega  Blocks.    
The  brothers  ignored  her.  Zach  finished  the  tower  with  setting  a  red  double  
block  on  top  of  the  wobbly  skyscraper.  Meanwhile  Jason  the  older  boy  had  his  four-­‐
year-­‐old  body  halfway  stuffed  in  the  toy  box.  He  came  out  with  a  plastic  dump  truck.  
“Moo  Zaah  move.”  He  ordered  his  younger  brother  Zach.    
“Come  on  boys  time  to  get  to  bed.”  Rose  said  while  getting  off  the  couch  and  
turning  off  the  VHS  player  and  T.V,  which  caused  the  talking,  singing,  giggling  purple  
dinosaur  to  disappear  from  the  screen.    
“Lets  brush  those  teeth  and  I’ll  read  you  a  bedtime  story.”  She  said  fighting  to  
keep  the  calm  in  her  tone.    
The  dump  truck  collided  with  the  Mega  Block  tower  and  both  boys  roared  
with  laughter  and  amazement.  They  didn’t  show  any  indication  that  they  were  ready  
to  settle  down.  Zach  jumped  up  and  down  on  his  tippy  toes  and  screamed.  “Crush!  
Crush!”  
“All  right,  enough  you  two,  time  for  bed.  Lets  go  or  I’ll  have  to  call  your  
mommy  and  daddy.”  Rose  said  although  that  was  a  weightless  threat.  She  wouldn’t  
want  the  Galandra’s  to  think  she  couldn’t  handle  their  kids.  As  much  as  she  dreaded  
babysitting  the  two  demon  children,  the  Galandra’s  paid  twelve  bucks  and  hour,  
twice  as  much  as  the  Law’s.  
She  scooped  up  Zach  holding  him  like  a  running  back  holds  a  football  and  
with  her  other  arm  grabbed  Jason  by  the  collar  of  his  T-­‐Rex  pajamas.  
Jason  drooped  his  lower  lip  and  gave  an  “Mhmm!”  to  protested.  He  tried  to  
wiggle  free  from  the  sitter’s  grasp.    
“No.”  was  all  the  Zach  said,  the  terrible-­‐two’s  favorite  word  in  his  minimum  
vocabulary.  “No  no  no  no  no!”    
“Zaaaacky?  Do  you  want  me  to  have  to  call  your  mommy?  She  won’t  like  
that.”  
“Mommy.”  He  said.  “I  aut  mommy!”  He  cried.  
Jason  joined  in,  “I  want  my  mommy  tooooo.”  
As  she  practically  dragged  the  brothers  up  the  stairs  to  their  bedroom  she  
quickly  thought  of  something  to  redirect  their  minds.  “If  we  brush  your  teeth  we  can  
go  read  about  Marvin.”  She  said  trying  to  make  a  deal  with  the  boys.  Marvin  The  
Mouse  was  their  new  favorite  bedtime  story  that  Mr.  Gualandra  had  turned  them  on  
to.  He  told  the  boys  that  Marvin  was  just  like  Indiana  Jones;  Marvin  searched  for  
treasure;  only  difference  is  that  Marvin  The  Mouse  went  on  journeys  to  find  cheese  
treasures  instead  of  gold.  Last  Saturday  when  Rose  read  them  a  Marvin  The  Mouse  
story  they  hadn’t  wanted  to  fall  asleep  but  instead  she  had  ended  up  letting  the  boys  
have  a  slice  of  cheese  before  they  finally  fell  asleep.  Hey  whatever  works.              
  
  
  

***  
Joe  takes  one  last  look  inside  the  bathroom’s  medicine  cabinet  for  he  belivese  is  
“The  Painkiller”.  
You  know  what  you  need  Joseph  you’re  just  not  looking  in  the  right  places.  It  
right  in  front  of  you  Joe.  
  He  joins  them  back  downstairs  empty  handed.  He  throws  on  his  boots  and  
black  rain  jacket.  There  was  no  more  aspirin.  He  came  up  empty  in  both  spots.  Even  
the  master  bedroom’s  nightstand  had  nothing.  It  was  time  for  “The  Painkiller”.    
I  won’t  go  away  this  time  Joseph.  I  need  more  then  a  hairless  pussycat  and  the  
lightning  doesn’t  show  any  signs  of  stopping  anytime  soon  buddy  boy.  Jonesy  
explained.    
If  driving  in  the  rain  to  get  the  painkiller  meant  demolishing  the  headache  in  
his  head  he  wouldn’t  mind  dancing  in  the  rain.  This  storm  was  a  whopper.  The  
lightning  lite  the  black  sky  in  bright  rips  of  blue.      
When  his  Audrey  was  still  alive  she  use  to  wet  a  cold  rag  and  put  it  on  his  
forehead;  that  made  the  headache  go  away  much  faster  than  aspirin,  and  that  was  
before  he  found  the  use  of  “The  Painkiller”.  Back  when  Jonesy  was  just  a  thin  
meaningless  layer  of  imagination.  He  had  been  able  to  fight  the  electrical  pull  of  the  
lightning  inside  his  head  back  then.  But  it  has  slowly  weaken  and  breached  in  
defense  mechanisms.  He  has  tried  to  make  “The  Painkiller”  a  last  resort.  Sometimes  
he  could  control  the  mind-­‐stabbing  attacks.  But  on  nights  like  tonight,  with  the  
storm  invading  the  sky,  there  was  no  relief.  He  couldn’t  control  the  raging  beast  
scratching  its  claws  at  the  walls  of  his  brain.  
Jonesy    
He  has  tried  his  best  to  hold  off  from  “The  Painkiller”  as  much  as  he  could  but  
tonight  it  had  gotten  to  the  point  where  “The  Painkiller”  is  his  only  solution.  He  can  
barely  keep  his  left  eye  open  all  the  way;  the  luminous  light  coming  from  the  ceiling  
chandelier  in  the  living  room  gauges  the  top  of  his  eyelids.  The  pain  stings  the  walls  
of  his  brain.  And  now  it  seems  that  his  mind’s  sense  of  smell  is  recalling  the  foul  
stench  that  came  from  the  cat.  It  sends  a  dagger  of  pain  to  the  back  of  his  ears.  That  
was  probably  the  case  last  week.  He  couldn’t  remember  what  happened,  only  the  
headache  and  a  black  cat  in  the  alley  outside  Jersey  Pride  and  Meats.  
His  mind  takes  a  random  attempt  at  remembering  the  nightmare  but  its  too  
late…  As  he  zips  up  his  raincoat  and  heads  outside  his  last  thought  (Joe’s  last  
thought)  is:  It  will  have  to  be  them  first    
Flashes  of  lightning  in  the  dark  sky  mixed  with  the  loud  claps  of  thunder  
inflict  extra  pain  to  Joe’s  head.  His  eyes  are  blood  shot  and  watery.  His  eyes  burn  as  
if  someone  had  thrown  gasoline  in  his  eyes  and  lit  a  match  to  his  pupils.  The  rain  
outside  falls  in  torrential  sheets  of  silver.  Someone  must  of  squashed  a  whole  sack  of  
spiders  and  really  pissed  off  Mother  Nature,  and  now  she’s  displaying  her  wrath.      
As  Joes  stumbles  down  the  cement  walkway  clutching  the  side  of  his  
pounding,  hairless,  head  with  a  leather  glove,  BA-­‐BOOM!  A  jagged  streak  of  lighting  
zaps  the  dark  gray  sky  turning  it  bluish-­‐purple  for  a  split  second.  The  light  
penetrates  violently  against  his  skull…  then  black.  Joe  ‘s  mind  goes  blank  as  if  he  has  
blacked  out.    
I’ll  take  it  from  here  kiddo.  The  lightning’s  my  life  baby  

The  storm  outside  Joe’s  house  shows  no  signs  of  quieting.  The  war  of  clouds  
in  the  sky  has  only  just  begun.  The  war  inside  Joe’s  head  continues  to  also  battle.  He  
is  in  desperate  need  of  “The  Painkiller”.    Somewhere  in  his  mind  he  knows  this,  and  
he  has  become  an  expert  on  knowing  how  to  stop  the  headaches.  And  although  the  
intense  migraines  have  forced  his  mind  into  a  fugue  state  his  body  makes  the  
necessary  moves  to  release  the  demon  that’s  fuming  inside  his  head.    
Jonesy  takes  control.    
Joe  winces  at  a  cord  of  agony  as  a  string  of  torment  plays  in  his  brain  tissue.  
He  fights  his  way  to  his  car.  The  headache  is  killing  him.  The  pain  has  spread  to  his  
jaws  and  lower  neck  and  has  slowly  begun  to  creep  its  way  down  his  spin.  If  he  
doesn’t  get  “The  Painkiller”  soon  the  torture  will  wrap  itself  around  his  torso  like  an  
anaconda  and  choke  the  living  hell  out  of  him.  Sure  he  can  hope  that  the  storm  stops.  
That  the  slaps  of  lightning  will  submit.  But  if  not  then  “The  Painkiller”  will  be  
needed.    
Joe  fumbles  the  keys  in  his  soaked  gloved  hands.  He  starts  the  car,  turns  on  
the  windshield  wipers  to  full  blast.  He  drives  to  town,  squinting  to  the  point  that  the  
sides  of  his  head  feel  like  their  on  the  verge  of  caving  in.  He’s  being  told  to  stop  at  
the  convenience  store.    
  
***  
After  thirty  minutes  of  strenuous  struggling,  Rose  has  finally  got  the  kids  to  bed.  
Luckily  for  her  the  two  boys  are  heavy  sleepers.  If  they  didn’t  wake  up  from  that  last  
clash  of  thunder,  Thor  himself  couldn’t  wake  these  kids  up  with  his  mighty  hammer.    
  
Rose  flicked  on  the  lights  and  headed  downstairs.  The  storm  outside  made  
the  house  creepy.  As  she  headed  downstairs  to  the  living  room  (late  night  with  
Jimmy  Kimble  was  just  about  to  start)  a  loud  bang  rang  over  the  house.  A  domino  
affect  of  loud  crashes  set  off.    BA-­‐BA  BA-­‐BOOOM!  The  sky  outside  sounded  like  a  
battlefield  in  Gettysburg.  Clouds  of  cannons  blowing  each  other  up  like  the  4th  of  
July.  Rose  scurried  to  the  living  room  couch.  She  could  see  from  the  bay  window  
behind  the  flat  screen  T.V,  a  green  light  sparked  in  the  distance.  The  whole  house  
went  pitch  black  as  a  long  Whoop  sound  took  away  the  electricity.    
Rose  was  heading  into  her  freshman  year  of  college;  she  was  an  adult  and  
didn’t  believe  in  all  that  horror  shit.  But  she  could  not  deny  the  slithery  hand  of  fear  
upon  the  nape  of  her  neck  when  the  transformer  blew  out  the  power.  She  was  
scared  to  death.  
The  boys  were  still  sleeping;  thank  the  heavens  hallelujah!  Rose  used  her  
smart  phone  as  a  flashlight  
“I  love  you  technology.”  She  whispered  to  herself  but  not  with  much  
confidence.    
The  flashes  of  lightning  in  the  dark  house  gave  her  a  chilling  sense  that  a  
paparazzi  of  psychopaths  where  taking  pictures  of  her  inside  the  dark  house.  The  
need  to  pee  suddenly  occurred  to  her.  But  she  didn’t  want  to  go  in  the  dark  
bathroom.  Some  sick  maniac  would  be  waiting  on  the  other  side  of  the  shower  
curtain,  just  waiting  for  her  to  pull  down  her  panties.  She  would  hold  it  for  now.  
Girls  can  hold  piss  in  forever.    

  
Using  her  phone  for  light,  Rose  went  searching  for  the  circuit  breaker.    The  
raindrops  pounding  on  the  roof  sounded  like  a  million  tiny  bugs  trying  to  break  in.  
She  reached  the  laundry  room  crossed  her  fingers  and  switched  the  main  breaker  to  
ON.  Nothing  happened.  She  tuned  around  to  go  back  to  the  couch  and  hide  under  the  
covers.  That’s  when  she  jumped.    
  
One  of  the  creepy  crawlers  from  the  roof  had  gotten  in,  some  kind  of  freak  
insect  that  had  been  zapped  to  life  by  the  daunting  bolts  from  the  sky.  It  crawled  on  
her  hand  that  held  the  cellphone.  It  shook  in  her  hand.  She  dropped  the  phone  and  
ran  to  the  couch  and—  
It  wasn’t  until  she  was  huddled  up  under  multiple  blankets  and  got  control  of  
her  edgy  mind  that  she  realized  the  deranged  bug  was  really  just  a  text  message.    
  
Rose  made  her  way  back  to  the  laundry  room.  Mrs.  Galandra  had  sent  her  a  
text,  not  a  gooey  bug.    
May  b  home  later  then  we  thought  roads  r  bad  going  2  wait  out  storm  
She  tapped  the  INBOX  icon  on  her  screen  again.  
Sorry  
Rose  wouldn’t  have  minded,  an  easy  twelve  bucks  an  hour  while  the  little  
brats  were  fast  asleep.  But  this  storm  was  starting  to  freak  her  out.    
Rose  texted  Mrs.  Galandra’s  phone:  ok  np  
And  it  really  wasn’t  a  problem.  But  then  her  phone  alerted  her  with  three  
small  beeps.  Her  phone  was  on  low  battery.    
  
***  
The  pain  in  his  head  is  making  Joe  want  to  vomit.  He  clenches  down  on  his  jaw  and  
grinds  his  teeth  to  try  and  ward  off  the  excruciating  pain.  It’s  almost  unbearable.  He  
needs  some  relief  from  the  sick  pain.  The  streets  have  vanished  and  the  sheets  of  
rain  have  taken  their  place.  He  can’t  see  anything  other  then  when  a  bright  strike  of  
lightning  zigzags  in  the  sky.    
  
Rose  checks  on  the  two  boys  who  are  sleeping  like  dead  road  kill.  She  found  a  Buzz  
Light-­‐Year  flashlight  on  a  dresser.  Rose  tuned  her  phone  off  when  it  read  3%.  Just  in  
case  an  emergency.  And  worst-­‐case  she  could  always  run  across  the  street  to  Ted’s  
Foods  N  Such  to  make  a  call  with  the  payphone.  Hopefully  that  has  power.  She’s  
almost  positive  that  they  had  a  payphone  outside  under  the  No  Loitering  sign.  Yeah  
its  ancient  but  if  I  need  to  make  a  call  in  an  emergency  it  will  get  the  job  done.    
  
For  the  rest  of  the  night  she’ll  make  camp  out  on  the  living  room  couch.  She  
thinks  about  going  around  the  house  and  making  sure  that  all  the  windows  and  
doors  are  locked.  But  before  she  can  decide  for  herself  an  explosion  of  thunder  and  
lightning  go  off  outside.  She  points  the  Buzz  Light  year  flashlight  in  front  of  her  and  
heads  to  the  safety  of  the  couch.  And  just  when  she  is  cuddle  in  the  protection  of  the  
warm  blankets.  
The  doorbell  rings.        
  
Much  like  his  current  headache,  the  rain  was  beating  on  the  aluminum  roof  of  the  
car.  Plip-­‐plip-­‐plip-­‐plip-­‐plip-­‐plip-­‐plip  He  needed  “The  Painkiller”.  He  pulled  his  car  in  a  
parking  spot.  With  the  car  idling  he  opened  the  glove  compartment  on  the  passenger  

side  shuffled  the  insurance  papers  and  parking  tickets  until  he  found  what  he  
needed.  He  re-­‐hid  the  22mm  in  between  his  pant’s  waistband.          
  
He  was  told  to  go  across  the  street.  
To  the  house  Joe,  The  Painkillers  are  inside  waiting  for  you  
He  had  never  sen  such  heavy  raindrops  before.  He  wasn’t  sure  if  it  was  his  
headache  making  the  raindrops  seem  stronger,  or  the  raindrops  making  his  fucking  
head  hurt  more.  But  it  didn’t  really  matter.  Either  way  Joe’s  head  felt  like  it  was  
going  to  burst.  His  head  felt  like  a  piece  of  chewing  gum  in  some  little  league  
baseball  manager’s  mouth,  gnawing  and  chewing…  blowing  bubbles  and  popping.  
He  could  picture  it  somewhere  deep  in  the  chambers  of  his  mind,  (back  when  he  still  
had  a  son)  watching  his  son  play  in  a  game.  The  third  base  coach  (some  piece  of  shit  
father  who  only  was  a  coach  so  his  son  wouldn’t  ride  the  bench  and  be  the  batboy)  
squatting  down  on  his  knees,  his  big  fat  ass  in  the  air,  half  an  ass-­‐crack  smirking  to  
the  poor  families  on  the  belchers,  squinting  over  to  second  base  as  if  the  little  kid  
was  even  paying  attention  to  him.  And  there  was  Joe’s  head  now,  inside  that  mouth,  
being  munched  on.    
Pop!  Pop!  Pop!  
  
If  Jones  didn’t  get  to  this  painkilling  soon,  his  skull  was  going  to  go,  POP!  
  
Joe  bit  down  on  his  tongue  as  hard  as  his  brain  would  allow  him.    
“Fuuhck!”  he  screamed  with  a  lisp  because  of  his  damaged  tongue.  A  trickle  of  blood  
got  lost  in  the  downpour  on  its  way  down  to  the  ground.  
  
“Don’t  curse!”  He  was  told.    
  
Joe  slapped  himself  across  the  face  in  retaliation  to  the  self-­‐inflicted  pain.    
But  the  pain  in  his  mouth  distracted  him  enough  to  forget  about  the  pain  in  
his  brain.  It  had  gone  to  his  brain,  from  his  skull,  to  his  head,  then  back  to  his  brain.  
Much  like  lightning  finding  ground.  Next  the  headache  would  reach  his  mind  and  
take  it  over.  The  lightning  would  find  its  ground.    
  
He  needed  “The  Painkiller”.  
  
Rose  tiptoes  to  the  front  door.  Buzz  leads  the  way.  She  stretches  her  hand  out  to  
turn  the  lock  and  unlatch  the  deadbolt.  But  she  gets  frozen  in  place  by  a  thunderous  
bang.    
  
It’s  just  the  storm.  Don’t  freak  the  fuck  out  Rosie.  Get  a  grip.    
A  firework  finale  of  lightning,  lights  up  the  black  outside.  It’s  bright  enough  to  
flash  her  eyes  worse  than  a  welding  spark.  Before  she  can  unlock  the  door,  she  
needs  a  second  for  her  eyes  to  readjust  to  the  darkness.    
  
I  should  be  at  Chris  O’Connor’s  house  getting  laid  right  now.  
  
When  Rose’s  eyes  once  again  get  adjusted  to  the  blackness,  the  doorknob  
turns  itself.    
  
Buzz  Light-­‐Year  crashes  to  the  ground.  
  
  
The  rain  and  his  intense  pain  in  his  head  blurred  his  vision.  He  pulled  out  of  Ted’s,  
the  local  convenient  store.  The  electricity  was  out  and  the  payphone  didn’t  work  
either.  But  screw  Ted  and  his  Food  N  Such.  Because  that  such  didn’t  include  “The  
Painkiller”  Joe  needs.  He  could  have  thrown  a  rock  through  the  window  and  grab  

some  aspirin  but  this  headache  is  well  past  that  point.  Nothing  will  help  but  “The  
Painkiller”.  
    
He  looks  across  the  street.  It’s  as  if  the  headache  has  somehow  produced  a  
spore  (A  lightning  generated  spore)  and  the  spore  is  now  directing  him.  Showing  him  
the  way  to  “The  Painkiller”.    
Jonesy  watches  the  car  pull  up.  
He  hides  behind  a  corner.  Five  minutes  later  a  girl  walks  out  and  gets  into  a  
parker  car.  
The  car  drives  away  and  Jonesy  makes  his  move.  
  
  
***  
Rose  is  nailed  to  the  hardwood  floor.  Her  heart  is  pumping  into  overdrive  while  the  
rest  of  her  body  is  numb  and  unresponsive.  She  is  dumbfounded.  She  might  not  have  
gone  around  and  check  if  all  the  locks  were  good  but  she  knows  that  ever  since  the  
Galandra’s  left  that  the  front  door  has  been  locked.  But  that  evidently  doesn’t  stop  
the  tall  man  dressed  in  a  black  rain  jacket  from  opening  the  door.  Rose’s  knees  
buckle  and  she  drops  to  the  floor,  joining  the  Space  Ranger.  She  wants  to  scream  for  
help.  Maybe  the  neighbor  will  here  her  and  call  for  help  but  her  tongue  is  twisted  in  
fear.    
  
Dear  God  help  me,  dear  God  help  me,  please,  please,  GOD!  She  prays  in  her  
head.  Then  another  killer  comes  in  behind  the  man.  Now  there  are  two  intruders.  
Rose  feels  helpless.  The  fear  has  not  only  cut  off  her  tongue  but  has  also  made  her  
cower  into  the  fetal  position.  The  horror  of  this  moment  has  forced  her  to  shut  her  
eyes  and  when  the  man  puts  his  hand  on  her  she  is  sucking  her  thumb  (like  a  toddle)  
like  a  baby.  
  
The  man  clawed  the  cringing  girl  by  the  shoulder.  
  
“Rose  what’s  wrong?  Is  everything  okay?”  He  asked.  
  
Then  from  behind  the  man,  “Are  the  boys  safe?”  
  
Rose  slowly  hatches  from  her  makeshift  shell.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Gualandra  helped  
her  to  her  feet.    
  
Mrs.  Gualandra  said,  “  My  phone  had  no  service  and  then  when  I  tried  calling  
you  your  phone  went  right  to  voicemail.  We  decided  to  take  a  chance  in  the  rain.”  
  
Feeling  queasy  and  discombobulated  from  the  scare  she  just  had,  Rose  took  
deep  breath  before  explaining.  “Myphonediedandthepower…  andthestormIwas  
scared…  I  thought,  I  thought  that  sah-­‐sah-­‐someone—  
  
“Shhhhh”  Mr.  Gualandra  put  his  forefinger  to  his  mouth.  
  
“Rose  calm  down  honey.  You  had  a  scare  is  all.  Now  are  the  kids  okay?”  Mrs.  
Gualandra  asked  concerned,  but  attempting  to  be  as  soothing  as  her  motherly  
worried  mind  would  allow.  
  
Rose  told  them  that  the  two  boys  were  asleep  upstairs  and  undisturbed.  “I’m  
sorry  Mr  and  Mrs.  Gualandra.  
“Oh  no  harm  done,  Mr.  Gaualndra  hates  my  colleagues  and  their  stuck-­‐up  
friends  anyway.  
Mr.  Gualandra  handed  Rose  a  fifty-­‐dollar  bill  and  saw  her  out  the  front  door.    
  
“Drive  careful  in  this.”  Mrs.  Gualandra  called  from  the  front  porch.    

Rose  waved  goodbye  and  got  in  her  car.  The  Gualandra’s  watched  her  pull  
away  then  closed  the  door  on  the  torrents  of  rain.  They  hung  up  their  jackets  and  
kicked  off  their  shoes.  
  
***  
“What  a  night  huh.”  He  said  to  his  wife.  They  both  headed  into  the  kitchen.  
Elizabeth  Gaulandra  took  a  wine  glass  out  of  the  kitchen  cabinet.  “Want  a  
glass  hun?  You  look  like  you  could  use  one.”  
“No  thanks  dear.  I  think  I’ll  head  up  to  bed.”    
“You  sure?  From  the  looks  of  you  driving  home  a  nice  glass  of  wine  may  do  
you  some  good  babe.”  She  asked  and  poured  herself  a  full  glass  of  red  Merlot.    
He  gave  an  Oscar  Award  winning  giggle.  “Yes  I’m  positive.  I  think  I’ll  just  head  
up  to  bed  now.  I  got  one  whopper  of  a  headache  and  it’s  killing  me.  He  placed  a  
gentle  kiss  on  his  wife’s  forehead,  pinched  her  nose  and  stared  for  the  stairs.    
As  he  reached  the  upstairs  landing  Liz  called,  “You  want  me  to  bring  you  
some  aspirin?”  
In  a  whispery  yell,  leaning  over  the  bannister  he  said,  “No  need  dear,  I’ve  got  
The  Painkillers.”    
Liz  Gaulandra  was  about  to  ask  if  he  could  check  on  the  little  ones  when  she  
heard  a  yipping  scream.  A  high  screeching  sigh  escaped  her  mouth.  “AHA”  Her  
tongue  and  throat  went  as  dry  as  the  wine  in  her  hand.  The  glass  of  red  Merlot  
slipped  from  her  grasp  and  crashed  on  the  floor,  spilling  a  puddle  of  blood  red  on  
the  kitchen  floor.  AS  she  hiked  up  her  black  skirt  above  her  knees  and  started  
sprinting  for  the  stairs,  she  heard  more  screaming  followed  by  two  throats  crying  
for  help.    
When  she  reached  the  boys  bedroom  what  she  saw  scared  her  to  death.  
  
Her  husband  Joseph  had  their  two  toddlers  Zach  and  Jason  clenched  in  the  
crook  of  one  arm.  In  his  free  hand  he  had  a  pistol.  The  dark  eye  of  the  gun  swung  
back  and  forth  from  the  two  boys  to  his  wife.  Outside  clouds  clashed  causing  a  
thunderous  roar  to  shake  the  house,  seconds  later  a  blade  of  lightning  sliced  the  sky.    
  
Inside  Joe’s  mind  Jonesy  continued  to  breath  life  through  the  electrical  pull  of  
the  lightning.  Jonesy  and  the  teeth  of  the  headache  gnawed  at  Joe’s  skull.    
  
In  a  wicked  cackled  voice  Joe  said,  “Take  three  Painkillers  one  a  day  before  
bed  for  best  results.”  
  
A  loud  finale  of  thunder  blasted.  
  
Three  gunshots  went  off.  
  
Jonesy  fled  to  the  deep  caves  of  Joe’s  mind.  
The  headache  went  away.            
    
          
    
  
      
  
  
  

  
  
  

  


