“This is a very strange world, and although you are no fioesque,” began the woman
at the entrance to the rented Irish palace where a very beautiful red-headed
woman, soon to wed the love of her life paused and smiled for the private
photographer. Sunshine as diamond as a moon shone down on all of that wedding
gathering there, and the girl knew as she had not known before real love between
a man and a woman for the first time. He brushed her cheek, and as his hand
drifted there, she felt the love of God in him for her. A sister bride, a smiling
mother there named Mary, and Fionna knew that at last she had found love, a love
she had prepared for all along, and a love which knew no suffering and no waiting.
It was, and not a moment too soon, her lifelong dream here now and all at once.

On the religious dating site and otherwise, the royalties of a good marital match
though had paid off. In the distance on the lawns of that great palace, she saw
beautiful garden mazes tinged of tiny flower buds on the cusp of what seemed

everywhere. She thought of her darling beloved, and of his business, how he kept
himself busy throughout each workday, and always being sure though to take a
day off here and there to adore and love her. Her past, a bereft of tin fields and
lost hopes and dreams, quietly she thanked the Lord her living God for all he had
blessed her of to date. Some of the memories, also thankfully not so clear, as her
once-love for Shepard Pie, and counting constellations, remembered as she and
her beautiful baby daughter had once done this together. A message from the
heavens way out there somewhere loomed ominous and blessed & positive.
Beyond the hills where she and he had just began to grant vows of holy matrimony
to each other, she saw sheep, a thousand or more sheep. And wondered, what
that message meant but only vaguely. For sheep and other symbolic symbiotic
symbols of earth and of ancient time had entered her heart and mind throughout
her life time, and had had not effect as well save beauty and peace, and an urge
from the father of the heavens above not necessarily to warn her – But mostly at
times just to bless her with the loveliness and the aesthetic of life and of living.


