Her long Polish name was much too hard to pronounce, so the children called her Miss T.
She explained to them that people who live in hot places around the world – the
Hawaiians, for instance – have lots of soothing vowels in their language, because a
tropical sun warms their lips. "Aloha nui loa e noho mai, e `ai a e, wala`au," she would
say softly, shaping her mouth into exaggerated ovals and mock kisses, as the children
listened, open-eyed and smiling. Whereas, in cold places like Poland, where she is from,
the winters are sluggish and brutal, so the people who live there suffer purple lips and a
cacophony of consonants. And here, Miss T, her teeth chattering uncontrollably, would
cough up a succession of K’s and Z’s and B’s and T’s, trying to construct her name from
this sonic clatter, while the children howled in their glee.
Her conceptual art degree from the Warsaw Academy did not allow her to make a
living in Los Angeles. But it did allow her to view the world through a precise lens and
she now shared that expertise with her students. She taught them the art of seeing, but they
taught her the art of feeling – drawing her into their feral emotion as they painted guns and

bleeding hearts on the costly paper she brought from home. When no one was around,
when the school principal and the administrators were well out of earshot, Miss T would
teach the kids critical thinking. A lost skill. The last taboo in America.
Once, she noticed a little girl sitting by herself in a corner of the large auditorium
watching the other kids rehearse their Christmas dance. They all wiggled and giggled
contagiously while the girl looked on, attentive but motionless.
"Good morning, Maria," Miss T said, gently, sensitive to the girl's timid nature.
"Why are you not with the other children practicing your dance steps?"
The girl did not look over at the teacher, but remained transfixed in her fascination
with the dancers. Miss T sat down on the old wood floor next to her and waited. After a
while the girl spoke in a hushed voice.
"It's because I'm a Christian," she said, indisputably.
"That's true, but that's not it, precisely. You are a 'kind' of Christian."
"What do you mean?" The girl said, now looking directly at Miss T.
"Well, most of the kids dancing on that stage are Christians. You are probably
from a ‘unique group’ of Christians. Did your parents say you are not allowed to dance?"
"Yes," Maria spoke suddenly, in earnest, "My mommy and daddy said God doesn't
want Christians to dance. It takes attention away from Him."
"Is that what they think? Hmm. And what do you think, Maria? What are your own
thoughts?"
Maria hesitated. Her eyes fidgeted for a brief moment and then focused as she
considered the question. A rosy tint emerged on her cheeks. "I would like to dance. It
looks like fun."
Miss T smiled. "That's good, Maria. It means you sometimes think differently from
your parents. There is nothing wrong with that. When I was your age I also thought
differently from my own parents."
"Wasn't it confusing? I mean… what if your thinking was wrong?"
"You should listen to what your mom and dad tell you," Miss T said. "They care
about you and want what is best. But you should also pay attention to what you yourself
think. And then compare your thoughts to what your parents are telling you…But don't
stop there. You want to then compare all of that to what other people around you think and

say. I am not asking you to necessarily believe what these people are saying – no – only to
pay attention. If what they say is different from what your parents tell you, that's okay. “
“Sounds even more confusing. So many opinions to choose from.” Maria said,
both excited and agitated by these new ideas.
“That’s correct, Maria. But the more, the merrier. Yes, the more opinions you have
to choose from, the richer the world will be that you live in. It means no single opinion
dominates. There is room for difference. You can be more compassionate toward your
neighbors, who may dress and behave in other ways than you are used to.”
Miss T gave Maria some time to think about this. They both sat quietly watching
the dancers. Maria’s eyes were alive with outer and inner activity.
“ So don't let it confuse you. Don't draw any conclusions yet. Just think about it for
a while. And you might have to think about it for many years. There is no hurry. Never
rush to a conclusion. Everyone will tell you something different. But after a while it will
all make sense. You will be able to form your own opinion by carefully thinking through
all the information you have gathered. You'll know what is right when the time comes.
And then the idea will be your own and not belong to someone else."
Miss T stopped and reflected, not fully satisfied with her own assessments and
presumptions. She noticed Maria’s innocent face absorbing her every word. Suddenly, this
heavy responsibility – the future wellbeing of another soul – weighed on her strong Polish
shoulders. So she added, “Not to confuse you further, Maria, but even when you have
drawn a conclusion, it is not written in stone. You can always change your mind as new
information falls into your lap…top. Ha. We all make mistakes. That’s how we learn.”
Miss T left Maria sitting there by herself. When you have 40 kids to attend to, each
child suffers a shortage of quality time. Maria didn’t move from her spot all morning. She
continued to watch the dancers while Miss T’s words trickled into her developing mind.
But later that day, after lunch, when Miss T happened to look over at the stage, she was
surprised and pleased to see Maria dancing up a very un-Christian-like dervish storm.
Later, when she was at home resting in bed, she thought of another deductive
insight, perhaps even a syllogism (whether valid or not), that she might have offered as a
gift toward Maria’s private erudition. If God is in all places at all times, then why would
He stop suddenly at the edge of the dance floor, afraid to make a step? Does the Holy

Father lack rhythm? How could the dance floor be Godless? Is there a place where He
does not exist? And why would it not be possible to feel the presence of her God while she
danced? But Miss T realized these suggestive inquiries would have been inappropriate in
the schoolyard, where Church and State are irreconcilable. Besides, if Miss T’s advice
were to remain objective and unbiased, Maria would need to reach that conclusion, in
time, through her own efforts and experience. Not from outside influence.
She loved living in America, especially southern California, where the year round
sunny days melted those bleak Polish winters from her memory. And she loved her
husband – an amorous Mediterranean man who was always chasing after her. He never
stopped touching every part of her body. He warmed the chill out of her bones. When they
cooked dinner together, he would often stop what he was doing to slide his arms around
her waist and kiss her neck, while she diced cabbage and chopped beets for the borscht.
When they went for a walk he would take a gentle hold of her upper arms, simultaneously,
in both his big hands. He always pleasured her first, before he ravaged her for himself;
followed by long, luxurious nights of spooning.
Their combined incomes were not enough to live on. It’s true he didn’t work as
hard as she did, but maybe he worked smarter. She embraced steady employment, he
chased sporadic freelance; she was the industrious worker ant from Northern Europe and
he was the pleasure-loving grasshopper from the Mediterranean. Somehow they scraped
by. They did bump heads occasionally, like most couples, over idiosyncratic differences.
She mobilized every pair of socks and marshaled every surface to reflect her face; he
didn’t mind a little mess – his socks never matched – and he preferred to smooch. But
primarily, they lived in harmony. In fact, over time, he taught her a different kind of art –
how to steal pleasure from every moment.
When acquiring a second language after the age of 12 or 13, it is next to
impossible to lose your accent. Miss T had learned English in her native Poland as an
adult. Although her accent was thick, her command of English syntax and grammar was
excellent. But like most immigrants, she occasionally used a turn of phrase in such an
amusing way the kids would be delighted for hours. Whenever she would say, “What a
week. Thanks God it’s Friday,” they would take the phrase home and repeat it all weekend
to squeals of laughter. At other times she would assure them with, “Don’t worry about the

quiz, it will be pieces of cake.” That one really tickled their funny bone. But for a foreign
mind, it makes perfect sense to think in this way. After all, one cuts things into ‘pieces’.
And one gives ‘thanks’ to God. In particular, she often repeated two American
colloquialisms – her favorites – perhaps because they were the first ones she learned when
she was studying English. At every opportunity, and there were plenty with these unruly
kids, she would say, “Who’s minding the store?” or “What’s up with that?”
Miss T’s enthusiasm for America never waned. But over the years her
disappointment with the American school system greatly disillusioned her hopes for the
future of this great country. In Europe, teachers are highly praised, well respected, well
paid, and well pensioned when they retire. After all, they are the caretakers who insure a
healthy garden – the ones who plant the seeds, who nurture the sprouts that will become
the fruit-bearing trees of the nation – the next generation of builders, thinkers, inventors
and innovators. How is it possible that the most powerful country in the world, America,
would throw its teachers to the bottoms of the barrel? “What’s up with that?”
And especially in the wealthiest state in the union, California, with its vast, fertile
farmlands (the breadbasket of the world); with its aerospace and computer industries
(Silicon Valley); and with its Lotto (which is supposed to provide huge revenue for
education); why is California now broke, and its children on the school grounds have no
nurses, no paper, and no hope of higher learning? “Who’s minding the store?”
But she loved her job and she loved working with the kids. The only drawback
(besides the unpaid extra hours, and the administrative bumbling) was that the children
made her sick. They were little germ factories, coughing like smokestacks, and her health
wasn’t what it used to be. This school year in particular, she was sick seven months out of
ten. Six years earlier, she had caught whooping cough from one of her boys (poor fellow),
who sneezed and vomited in her face while she was leaning in close to help him with a
run-on sentence. Whooping cough is rare these days and vaccines have all but stamped it
out, which meant her doctors didn’t diagnose it properly. For six months her hacking and
wheezing was so severe, she got no rest and her husband had to sleep in the other room.
But she would never take a day off. She had that Polish workhorse ethic.
Once a week each kid had to recite a poem, from memory, in front of the class.
This was not an easy task for the students or the teacher. Untrained little minds meet new

words with a wicked resistance. Kittens have more discipline. So the obligatory recital
first required they handwrite the poem – daily. Through tedious repetition, the ink would
eventually soak every word into their brains. By the end of the week this rote exercise
gave them a gangly confidence. They could then stand before their fellow students and
deliver, orally, the inspired verse. As every parent understands, no transaction between
child and adult can proceed without a deal. In this case, the ‘deal’ was simple: once they
had recited the mandatory poem, they would no longer need to scrawl a tedium of crooked
letters – meaningless scratches on a page they couldn’t relate to. After all, wouldn’t a
drawing of killer robots blowing each other up make more sense? And be more fun? Since
the kids hated the act of writing and would avoid it at all cost, the sooner they got it over
with, the better. This single motivation made it quick and painless for all – except one boy.
Hugo.
The school threw chaos in her wakes and left her with a problems child. Hugo was
a selective mute. He blabbered endlessly, at home; but at school, not a squeak. He chatted
with his best friend, but not with the other children. Before public education had run out of
funding, Hugo had been assigned a counselor, a speech therapist, and a psychologist.
Every teacher and resource person in the school had also tried to help the boy,
unsuccessfully. No one knew what trauma had triggered his wordless retreat or how to
break his voluntary silence. By the time Miss T arrived at the school, they had thrown out
their towels and considered the boy to be a waste of valuable resource. “Leave him with
me,” she told them, resolutely. “I know what to do.”
Miss T had a theory. She believed it was the whooping cough that had indirectly
caused her cancer – by compromising her immune system and wearing her down. Her
doctors didn’t agree that whooping cough could possibly cause cancer, directly or
indirectly, but she held her ground. Although she had been aware for a few weeks that
something odd was happening on her lower abdomen, just above her pubis, it was her
husband, through his affectionate touches, who had first discovered the lump.
Miss T noticed Hugo hunched over his desk. His head covered by his signature
blue hood. She walked over and rested a concerned hand on his shoulder. "Are you okay?"
He slowly sat up and resumed playing with his keychain. Along with two keys, a little
man hung from a silver ring. Its hands and feet were shaped into wrenches. "Wow," Miss

T said, enthusiastically. "That man is a hard worker. Look at all the wrenches. That means
he knows how to turn things around. When something isn't working he knows how to
tighten things up and make them better. And look at his smile. He wants you to be happy
too. He wants you to pick up your pencil and work on your paragraph.” She pointed to the
writing assignment he was supposed to have finished. He had barely begun. “You can
move these words around, freely, in this part here; and add a period there; and remove this
phrase because you have already used it above." She took her red pen and showed Hugo
all the magical possibilities – how elastic and playful writing can be.
Then, she darted across the room to resolve a conflict between two girls fighting
over a wet paintbrush, gobs of green watercolor spattered onto their faces. Miss T took the
paintbrush away from them. “You both know we’re short on supplies, so you need to learn
to share.” The girls acquiesced, but continued to stare each other down like a couple of
boxers geared up for the second round. “I have a suggestion. When one of you is using the
brush, I want the other one to observe what she paints and how she paints it. You might
just learn something.” When the girls settled down and took turns sharing, Miss T looked
over at Hugo, now happily immersed in a busy writing frenzy.
Her gynecologist was a tall, dark, and unconventionally handsome man, who
always made her feel comfortable with his warm and earnest bedside manner. He gave her
the bad news. She had a malignant tumor on her ovaries. He explained that ovarian cancer
was a deadly, silent killer that targeted a demographic primarily of Northern European
women who, like her, have never had children. African-American women, for instance,
have almost zero incidences of ovarian cancer. But the good news was that they had
discovered it in the early stages, so her chances of survival were excellent.
She didn’t know whether to laugh or cry. But her husband knew what to do
immediately. Weep. He navigated his ship of tears, south, through a Mediterranean storm.
Nothing would console him. Understanding how profoundly important she was to him,
she decided to tough it out in true Polish style, and accept her fate – dry eyed. She was
more concerned about her husband. How would he handle it if she didn’t survive? He
loved her more than any man had ever loved her. She felt his joyful presence every
moment of her day.
Maria, the little Christian girl, had been thinking. She raised her hand in the middle

of a math problem. Well, it wasn’t exactly a math problem. It was more of an ethical
problem. Miss T had asked the class what they would do if they were driving a car fast on
a mountain road and they saw a little girl, too late, around a curve. They would have no
time to break. If they swerved to the left they would hit the mountain, and most likely die.
If they did nothing and drove straight ahead, the girl would die. If they swerved to the
right they would most definitely die, as they would fall off the cliff into an abyss. Most
kids responded they would prefer to take their chances veering toward the mountain,
where there was still a chance to survive. A few boasted they would be brave and drive
over the cliff rather than kill the girl. But Maria stood up and spoke sincerely, “It’s easy in
the classroom to be brave and say these honorable things. But in real life, if this happened
to me, I think I would be too scared to die and I would hit the girl.” The kids all booed and
called her a coward. But Miss T let them know, “I think Maria has given the most honest
answer. She is not a coward. She is being truthful to herself, because she has thought
carefully about who she is. It is important to really, really know yourself. To always speak
from the heart.”
Maria did not sit back down but raised her hand to ask another question. Miss T
was glad that Maria had gotten over her shyness and was now engaged in very serious
topics for her age. Nevertheless, Maria spoke demurely, “If there is only one God, why do
so many people pray to different Gods?” This theological question was beyond what Miss
T was allowed to answer, but she was elated that Maria was starting to think for herself.
“You know, Maria, sometimes the question, is more important than the answer.” Miss T
left it at that. Maria sat back down, contemplating this unexpected response. Later, she
would have to go home and think it over some more. After that Miss T returned the class
to their math subject.
One morning, Hugo trotted over with a sad look on his face. She could tell he
needed a good hug. But she wasn’t allowed to touch any child. Sometimes the kids would
spontaneously run over and throw their arms around her, happy to have her in their lives.
She was comfortable with that. And pleased. But she couldn’t do the same in return.
Moving here from Europe, where people do not own guns but often give each other hugs,
it was hard for Miss T to wrap her mind around the fact that in America, guns are legal but
hugs are outlawed. “What’s up with that?” A good hug would have established rapport

and gained Hugo’s trust sooner. But she was resourceful. She had other approaches, which
might take longer, but were equally as effective.
This week’s verse was Faun’s Head by Arthur Rimbaud. The poem is about
astonishment in a magical forest. Although it was unusually difficult for children this age,
she specifically chose this one because the mythical creature, wild in the woods, reminded
her of the children. “Among the leaves…a startled faun widens his two eyes and bites the
sanguine flowers with his white teeth…his mouth explodes in laughter beneath the
branches.” This passage definitely reminded Miss T of the kids on their lunch break. And
finally, when the faun has “scampered – like a squirrel – his laughter still trembles on
every leaf, and you can see, awakened by a bullfinch, the Golden Kiss of the Wood,
pulling itself together again.”
Every day Hugo would turn in his handwritten copy of the poem. She could tell by
the softer, sweeter expression on his face that he was warming up to her, little by little,
and beginning to trust her. But no matter how gently she spoke or how cheerful her
questions, she couldn’t muster a peep out of him.
Each week all the children had stood before the class and recited their poem. But
Hugo still refused. A few times, when Miss T would sit after school preparing lessons,
Hugo would hang out under her care waiting for his parents to pick him up. He knew he
would have to keep writing out the poem until he was able to say it aloud before the class,
but he remained silent. “I want you to do me a favor, Hugo,” Miss T asked him. “I want
you, today, before you go home, to say only the title of the poem, that’s all. Then you
won’t have to copy the verses everyday. You don’t even have to recite the entire poem
before the class, only the title, right now, during this hour, for my ears alone. I will even
turn around. I need to prepare the lessons for tomorrow, on the blackboard. So when you
are ready, say the title so I can hear it and you can stop writing and go play.” His best
friend had decided to stay with Hugo to keep him company. “Now that is a great friend,”
Miss T said. “I would love to have a friend who cared about me that much.” His friend sat
close to Hugo, whispering in his ear. “Say the title, Hugo. It’s only two words – Faun’s
Head. Say it. Come on – say it. Then we can go play. You won’t have to write anymore.
Just say it.” His friend kept offering these suggestions relentlessly, single-mindedly, for an
entire hour. “Look, Hugo,” his friend persisted, “Miss T turned her back. She can’t see

you. Go on, say it.” Finally, before the hour was up, in a low, squeaky, trembling tone,
Hugo spoke. “Faun’s Head, by Arthur Rimbaud.” Miss T turned around with a huge smile
on her face. “That was excellent, Hugo.” His friend smiled too. “See, I told you it was
easy.”
By the time her limited insurance kicked in, three months had passed before they
could schedule her surgery. No one knew exactly how the small tumor had leaked; maybe
because so much time had lapsed since the diagnosis; maybe because the scalpel had
accidently sliced the tumor going in. Her oncology surgeon did a great job of cleaning
everything up afterwards, making sure no cancer cells were left behind, but just to be sure
he insisted she go through a double round of chemotherapy. The first round would be the
standard twelve sessions. The second round would be a concentrated dose injected into the
peritoneal cavity. But she wasn’t going along with this plan passively. As usual, Miss T
required other opinions before drawing a conclusion. She needed to cross-reference her
options through exhaustive research. She performed her due diligence by making phone
calls and scouring the Internet for all available information. Her handsome gynecologist
corroborated her findings. The second round of chemo would be unnecessary. The
percentage of improvement between those who received the treatment and those who
didn’t was so miniscule it wasn’t worth suffering the extra horror and its aftermath.
Her husband was an angel through the entire nightmare. The post-surgery hospital
stay would have been grueling had he not sat by her side holding her hand and reassuring
her with smiles and kisses. He sweet-talked the nurses into letting him sleep over – a
request they never allowed. They even provided a mat for him to rest on overnight. He
brought in his freelance jobs and playfully designed on his laptop while she hallucinated
on the morphine. All night long Miss T couldn’t sleep because the opiate dripping into her
arm kept whispering: America. America. America.
Miss T was a vegetarian. She tried to interest the children in eating more
vegetables – the missing component in their sugar, starch, and animal diet. To their
astonishment, she explained how she grew a variety of edible foods on her balcony and
windowsill. She would bring soil and seeds and earthenware from home and teach them
how to pot and water and nurture the plants. It did no good. They loved sprouting the
seeds, but not eating the yield. On the day she found a nonprofit organization to provide

the school with fresh organic tomatoes for lunch, the children groaned that they hated
tomatoes. She spent a lengthy amount of time convincing them that tomatoes are not only
nutritious and energizing but they are as sweet and delicious as candy.
At lunchtime, Hugo came running over excitedly to where Miss T was standing in
the shadows (after chemo, the Southern California sun was too harsh on her delicate skin).
He grabbed her hand, opened it, and placed three cherry tomatoes in her palm, two red and
one yellow. He could see she was delighted. But having second thoughts, before she could
eat one, like a baby bird snagging a worm, his five small fingers pecked at her hand and
snatched the yellow tomato right back out of her palm. He popped it swiftly into his mouth
and chewed it up wholeheartedly right in front of her. This cracked her up. “I’ll bet you’ve
never eaten a yellow tomato before, have you Hugo? This is your first one?” He nodded in
agreement and ran off toward the parallel bars, his blue hood flapping. “I just knew it,”
she said, smiling after him.
Her husband attended every chemo session. Painfully disheartened, he couldn’t
design, so he would sit, round-shouldered and vigilant, on the chair next to his wife as she
suffered the ordeal while reading a vegetarian magazine. Observing her calm exterior with
curiosity, he appeared to suffer more than she. For she seemed relaxed and unaffected by
the poison draining from the ominous bag above her head down the tube into the portacath
implant burrowed in her chest. All previous attempts to mainline had badly bruised the
fragile veins in her arms. On the way home, after her first experience with the slow
dripping toxin, she bragged to him that it was a pieces of cake. What is the big deal? Why
does everybody make such a fussy about it? But by the third session, it hit her that
chemotherapy is progressive. The poison builds up, killing you by degrees, until it
overwhelms your mental and physical resistance. Then, out of nowhere, the neuropathy
would kick in. The pins and needles in her hands and feet drove her crazy. Suddenly, she
would rub her hands furiously. Or she would stomp her feet and dance around in a circle
on the kitchen’s polished linoleum. Her husband would ask her, “Do you want a hat,
honey?” She would look over at him puzzled. “You know,” he added, playfully, “for your
Mexican Hat Dance.” She would burst out laughing and the laughter helped relieve the
pain.
Once, she started sobbing. She rarely cried, so on this occasion, her husband was

deeply concerned. “Are you in terrible pain, sweetie?” “No,” she responded, hysterically,
“It’s just that if I stand too long in one place, a pile of hair appears at my feet. Look at
this?” She bent down and picked up a wad of hair strewn around her Doc Martens. He
tried to console her. “Well then, try not to stand too long in any one place.” This time her
laughter reverted to more tears. “Look at my head? My hair is so thin you can see my
scalp.” He addressed her tenderly, “It doesn’t diminish your beauty in the least. It’s always
a pleasure to look at you. I’m surprised, I’ve never known you to be vain.” She was quiet
for a moment. “It isn’t about vanity. Much of a woman’s identity is tied up in her hair. I
feel so ugly.” She continued her sobbing. He threw his arms around her gently. “Ooh, you
lovely thing, please don’t feel that way, don’t you understand? You’re always beautiful to
me. Always. It’s just that now you happen to be my post-apocalyptic-punk-art babe.” And
he kissed her on the head. She recoiled squeamishly. “Don’t do that, you’ll cause more
hair to fall out…I’m starting to look like the Golem in the Lord of the Rings.” So he
kissed her once on the forehead and twice on each cheek. “Yes, my precious.” She stopped
crying and smiled, enlivened by her husband’s devotion.
Hugo often waited for his parents under Miss T’s supervision. His best friend
couldn’t always accompany him, so one time, when it was just Hugo and Miss T, she
opened a large black bag she had brought from home, and flipping it upside down,
dumped out an endless stream of art tools and supplies onto his desk – brushes, tubes of
paint, colored pencils, pens, markers, and blank canvases. His eyes popped out at this
magical invocation before him as if he had rubbed a lamp and every one of his wishes had
come true.
“Hugo, I know I said you were no longer obligated to write or recite the poem. But
I was struck by a strange idea. What if I leave the room while you recite into my recorder?
She activated the memo app on her phone. If you can recite the entire poem, you can have
everything in this art bag.” Hugo stared at her, astonished. “Would you like that? I know
how much you love to paint. And you are so good at it. Do you think you could put these
tools to good use?” Opening the empty black bag, she reclaimed her harvest and walked
away with the booty. Hugo was suddenly dispirited. “Whenever you are ready to recite,
just go ahead, I will be outside the door working on lessons. Or you can do it tomorrow; or
the day after; or the day after that. But just remember. You won’t receive your prize until

you recite the entire poem.”
The next day Miss T played the recording of Hugo reciting the poem. The entire
class listened open-mouthed, surprised and impressed. When everyone looked over to
acknowledge Hugo for his daring accomplishment, they noticed his seat was empty. Hugo
was hiding under his desk.
However, the following morning, after recess, Hugo was the first to burst into the
room and run up to her, filled with enthusiasm and purpose. He proclaimed in a loud, but
still wavering voice, “Miss T, Miss T, can I recite the Faun’s Head myself, in front of the
class, not the recording, but just me?” At first she was shocked. To hear his voice for the
first time after all these months just about made her cry with joy. But she held back the
tears. Instead, the corners of her mouth slowly lifted into a satisfied smile.
Hugo stood confident at the front of the class. His blue hood usually covered most
of his face. But now he pulled it back onto his shoulders. Outside, the weather had shifted
over the last few days from the usual L.A. sunny skies. Clouds gathered and a few drops
of chilly rain fell here and there on the playground as the wind shook the trees. Miss T
tried to suppress a cough – this residual daily hack had begun months ago and seemed to
persist, much to her annoyance and discomfort. Her doctors couldn’t find anything wrong
and thought it might just be allergies.
Hugo recited the first line timidly, but soon pronounced every long and difficult
word with accuracy and confidence: “Among the leaves of the grove, green nook
sprinkled with gold, in the uncertain forest that blossoms with spectacular flowers…a
startled faun opens his two eyes wide and bites the red flowers with his white teeth.” As
Hugo continued, his shaky, squeaky voice found solid ground and deepened its resonance.
When he reached the poem’s finale, Hugo slowed down and took a deep breath: “…his
mouth explodes in laughter beneath the branches. And when he has scampered – like a
squirrel – his laughter still trembles on every leaf, and one can see, awakened by a
bullfinch, the Golden Kiss of the Wood, pulling itself together again.”
Hugo himself couldn’t stop trembling with laugher. Silence filled the room as Miss
T and the whole class were left speechless. His own white teeth in contrast to his dark
brown skin seemed to take a bite out of that moment and store it in everyone’s memory.
From this day forward, no one could shut Hugo up.

That evening, she lay in bed thinking about her day. Outside her window, the
leaves rustled as the wind ripped through the branches of the trees. A confident drizzle
tapped at the glass letting her know she was vulnerable, yet safe. The long effort and
determination she had taken with Hugo had paid off. She thought of the look on his face
as he read out loud to the class for the first time the last line of the poem, pulling himself
together again.
These reflections made her happy – her life in America, her school children, her
marriage. Snuggled up and intimate, her husband held her contentedly while he purred in
his sleep. Not wishing to wake him, she tried to suppress a cough. But in this instance, her
effort and determination were futile. For all along her chest, over each of her ribs, she
could feel a tickle roll upward, slowly, toward her mouth – where it exploded into a
consonant. Maybe a K or maybe a T. Under the soft, even rain, the branches quivered and
sighed, gradually lulling her to sleep. And as she drifted off, she could hear Hugo’s
laughter still tremble on every leaf.

	  


