In response to your E-Newsletter regarding Peter Gabriel’s
upcoming summer tour dates: NO THANK YOU.

I want it to be

perfectly clear to whomsoever is reading this, that I do not
want to be subscribed to your email newsletter any longer nor in
any capacity.

Your constant and insistent invitations for me to

click on your links are met with, on my end, nothing but
frustration.
For some reason, despite my initial, measured requests to
be removed and my later, more vehement protestations, your
emails continue to arrive in my inbox.

No matter what I do, no

matter what button I press, no matter who I email, I continue
getting emails from you.
but to no avail.

I have tried and tried to unsubscribe,

In Response to Your E-Newsletter RE: Peter Gabriel … / 2

Any company who would find it necessary to harangue me in
the way you have so vociferously done, after I have asked you to
stop, is a company I would avoid patronizing.

No matter what

they were selling, behavior like that would dissuade me from
purchasing their product, even if I were in the market for said
product.

Even if I knew the product to be a quality product,

reasonably priced and readily available for purchase from online
sources as well as a variety of retailers, I would hesitate to
purchase said reasonably-priced and well-made product if I felt
the company selling this product were disrespectful of their
potential client’s wishes.
Even if the product being offered was a medication that
cured moderate to severe acne.

Even if it were a software

program that helped you to manage your funds and balance your
budget and prevent you from constantly overdrawing your account.
Even if it were a product that was safe for the environment and
did not exploit any workers in developing nations (some people
say third world countries, but I say developing nations).

Even

if the product were some kind of computer program that would
prevent the NSA from monitoring me and my computer habits and
what I was illegally and legally downloading and viewing, and
what my social media and email habits were like.

Even then,

even products like these, which I would normally be very

In Response to Your E-Newsletter RE: Peter Gabriel … / 3

interested in procuring, even if these were the products you
were selling, I would be hesitant to be involved with exchanging
money for goods and service from a company that was so willing
to harass its customer base in the fashion that you have seen
fit to harass me.
But that is not the situation we are in.

The

aforementioned products which might actually be of interest to
me are not the products you are selling.

The products that you

sell have exclusively to do with the music of one Peter Gabriel
and I am not in the market for anything having to do with Peter
Gabriel.

Not now.

Not ever.

I am not interested in his new single, nor his upcoming
tour.

I do not like Peter Gabriel’s music.

Not his work with

Genesis which I consider to belong to my parent’s generation,
not his ostentatious solo work which I considered samey and
overly produced.

“Salisbury Hill” is ok, I guess.

And when

“Games Without Frontiers” comes on PYX 106, which is the classic
rock radio station around here, I don’t change it.

Despite

these exceptions, it is fair to say I find Peter Gabriel’s music
distasteful and would be happy to never hear these songs again
if it meant I was saved from the soulless carcass that is the
rest of his catalog.

In Response to Your E-Newsletter RE: Peter Gabriel … / 4

Gabriel’s melodramatic later work is what led us to the
situation we are in right now, so I hate it more than any of his
other work.

My girlfriend at the time, Christina, who later

became my wife, and then my ex-wife, loved some song about a
father and son that Gabriel wrote and played an
uncharacteristically spare and naked version of.

She loved the

black and white video where Pete emoted all over the keys of a
piano and the lens of a camera.

Her feelings toward this song

had something to do with her father and her I am sure.
I was never sure of the whole story.
find out.

Maybe I should have.

I never bothered to

Maybe if I had asked about her

more often we would not have grown apart the way we did.
Especially at the end there.
Or maybe she imagined it would have something to do with
the children she imagined we would one day have.

We were unable

to have children, it turned out, which of course did not end the
marriage, but it didn’t help. Various factors go into ending a
marriage and whether or not we could have children, and whose
fault that was, was merely a contributing factor to what was an
already, by the point we realized we could not have children
together, a hostile and unhealthy relationship.
She had some kind of expectation for me.

Some kind of mold

I was supposed to fit into that I was unaware of when the

In Response to Your E-Newsletter RE: Peter Gabriel … / 5

relationship began, which is unfair I think.
me against other men.

She was measuring

Against men she had previously dated,

against her father, her very successful older brothers.
pastor or high school English teacher.
certain way.

Maybe a

She wanted me to be a

She wanted me to be a good father to her as-yet-

unborn child.
This is how I imagined she felt.

Not me, though.

as I am concerned, fathers are overrated.

As far

Most people long for

some relationship, or reconciliation with their fathers, but I
don’t.

I don’t see the point.

When I watch a movie, or a TV

show where the father tragically dies and the child must avenge
them or whatever, I always end up hating that movie.
usually better off without their father.

The kid is

They have to learn to

think for themselves, they have to learn to stand up for
themselves and they can’t be let down time and time again by
some guy they wish was a hero, but who actually isn’t.
This automatic response of mine, where I hate movies about
fathers and sons, has ruined several movies (if you have not
seen them, beware, Spoilers for Godfather and for Star Trek
ahead).

It has made me long for the death of Marlon Brando in

The Godfather and cheer for the death of Liam Hemsworth in the
2009 reboot of Star Trek.

In Response to Your E-Newsletter RE: Peter Gabriel … / 6

Whenever I see a movie like Batman, Lion King, or
Braveheart, where there is some touching scene where the father
dies I always say to the screen, “You’re better off without
him,” or “who needs him, anyway?”
hated when I did that.

Christina, my ex-wife, always

And yes, we did watch The Lion King

together even though we didn’t have any kids.

We were that kind

of couple.
But Christine was one of those people who wanted to
reconcile with her father.

He was your classic piece of crap.

Worked all the time, was never there for her, divorced her mom,
emotionally unavailable.

The whole nine.

to some kind of understanding with him.

Eventually she came
She was always trying

to get me to go over there for Christmas and the like, and I was
like, “Why?”
It just never made sense to me.
But I loved her.

And even though I probably didn’t ask her

about what was going on with her as much as I should have I did
the best I could and so I used to do stuff for her, like go to
Christmas at her stupid dad’s house with his new wife and all
that.

And I would smile and be so polite and charming.

And,

believe it or not, despite what you have seen in the various
communications regarding, vis a vis, the newsletters you won’t
stop sending me, I can be very charming.

And I also used to do

In Response to Your E-Newsletter RE: Peter Gabriel … / 7

other sweet stuff for her too, like rub her neck and feet and go
to the store and buy maxi-pads and all that other unromantic/
romantic boyfriend-husband stuff.
about.

You know what I am talking

The kind of stuff that when a guy in a TV show does it,

you can tell he’s a good guy.

The guy the girl is supposed to

end up with, even though the guy is a little less handsome, and
a little less cool than some other guy played by Chris Messina
or Dax Shepherd, or some douche like that.
And that is why I subscribed to your newsletter.

Just

because that was the only way I could download that stupid goddamn Peter Gabriel song from your website.
Christiana and her stupid dad.

Because of

Because I am such a caring,

charming, kindhearted fucking guy.
I would not have done it had I thought it would be so hard
to unsubscribe from you bastards.

Sometimes I wish I had not

ever received the promotional material in the mail from Guitar
Center.

They send you catalogs in the mail if you spend a

certain amount at their stores and their mailers and newsletters
don’t bug me like yours do.

They know how to treat a customer.

And yes, I am on their mailing list because I am a musician, but
don’t just jump to a bunch of conclusions.
bitter, angry failed musicians.
in a band.

I’m not one of those

I’m just a guy who used to be

And who knows what would have happened if we’d have

In Response to Your E-Newsletter RE: Peter Gabriel … / 8

booked that gig opening for Buckcherry.

I don’t dwell on those

things and I don’t mind that I wasn’t able to make it as a solo
musician.

I can accept my limitations with grace.

Just because I am a musician doesn’t mean I have to like
Peter Gabriel, though.

Just because I was not able to meet all

my career goals and he was, it does not mean I am jealous of
him.

I just don’t like his music.

for me.

You know?

That’s what it’s all about

Music is supposed to hit you in the gut.

And it is supposed to mean something.
to a place and time.

It is supposed to tie you

It is supposed to be like an inside joke

that only you and one other person share.

Like that song by Lou

Reed my dad used to love, or the one by Whiskeytown that
Christina and I used to sing along to, or the one by The
National that I can’t even talk about right now.

It is supposed

to make you feel like it was written just for you, or just for
you and one other person.
the real world.

Like you found something magical in

And Peter Gabriel just doesn’t do that for me.

So, for all these reasons and a few more that I have not
even mentioned here, I want you to remove me from your mailing
list.
I am contacting you at this email address that I found on
your website because I don’t know where else to turn.

When I

try to respond to the emails that show up in my inbox I get an

In Response to Your E-Newsletter RE: Peter Gabriel … / 9

automated response that says “the email address you have reached
is not monitored.”

Whatever that means.

I have tried clicking on the little fine print
“unsubscribe” button and that link brings me to a website called
realworldproductions.com.

As far as I can tell the site

provides information about the crappy World Music Peter Gabriel
pretends to give a shit about, but it provides no option for
unsubscribing.

I emailed the booking agent, Delia Carruthers

the following message:

Dear Delia Carruthers:
Unsubscribe me immediately.

Peter

Gabriel's music makes me want to
vomit.

Sincerely,

Frank Ketchum

That was two years ago and I have received no response from
Miss Carruthers, and countless Newsletter junk-emails since
then.

In Response to Your E-Newsletter RE: Peter Gabriel … / 10

Next I tried contacting Petergabriel.com
There I actually found an option to unsubscribe, but they
request an email address and a reason.

I entered my email

address and included the following message:

To Whom it May Concern:
Unsubscribe me immediately.

Peter

Gabriel's music makes me want to murder
school children by strangling
them.

This is the sixth time I am

requesting this.

If I have to do it a

seventh time, I will consider it
harassment.

Sincerely,

Frank Ketchum

After entering my email address I immediately received an
automatic notification thanking me for subscribing to the Peter

In Response to Your E-Newsletter RE: Peter Gabriel … / 11

Gabriel Newsletter.

Now I regularly receive two emails at a

time from your company.
little pathetic.

And at this point it has become a

I feel like Peter Gabriel has become so

irrelevant to the music buying, concert attending public that
you have to resort to these tricks to continue to be a part of
the conversation.
stupid.

I know how numbers get manipulated. I’m not

And I know that you don’t care what kind of attention

is paid to your website as long as someone is paying attention.
My second grade teacher, talking about Tracy Watts, used to
say, “Tracy just wants attention, even if it is the bad kind of
attention.”

That’s you, right now.

Watts, who I also pitied.
don’t work.

You are just like Tracy

And let me tell you, these tricks

These little ploys and plans and plots.

from experience.

I know

It’s like, you think just because you leave

stuff at your ex-wife’s place you can keep going over there and
she is going to fall in bed with you like that one time right
around 4th of July.

But I can tell you right now, it is never

going to be like it was.

She is never gonna laugh in that way

she used to laugh and tilt her head a little bit and offer you a
beer.
And if I have to accept that about Christina, then you need
to accept that Peter God Damned Gabriel is never gonna headline
the MTV music awards again.

Or the Grammies.

Or whatever other

In Response to Your E-Newsletter RE: Peter Gabriel … / 12

stupid awards show they have now.
That time in your life is over.

You need to just accept that.
It’s time to take a good hard

look in the mirror and try to figure out what you still have to
offer and who is interested in it.

Maybe you can take the

knowledge and the skills you have and the love you once had for
music and apply it to teaching young people how to unlock their
potential.

Has that ever crossed your mind, Peter?

Or maybe

there is a band you can contribute to who really needs your
skill set.

Like really needs it.

Not like Genesis, who clearly

didn’t need you and who moved on so quickly after you left
without even blinking an eyelash.

And maybe this hypothetical

band who requires your skill set will even let you be in charge,
which is something that you obviously really value.
they won’t, but you’ll be involved.
process.

Or maybe

You’ll be a part of the

And that is important.

Or maybe music isn’t what you needed to do after all.
Maybe you should have followed in your dad’s footsteps and
became an engineer.

The world needs engineers.

And you might

have been able to really do something new and different and
great.

Have you even thought of that?

Has that even crossed

your mind?
But first, before you can do any of that, you need to move
on.

You have got to give up on the past.

You have got to

In Response to Your E-Newsletter RE: Peter Gabriel … / 13

accept that you are in a new phase of your life now.
to give yourself a break on mistakes you have made.
won’t be easy, but you have to do it.

You have
And it

For example: in my life I

had to come to the realization that I never should have bought
that Nissan.

Nothing good ever came out of it.

brought me was trouble.

I know that now.

All it ever

I can see that.

And

after the divorce, when I went to Christina’s dad’s funeral I
realized that the things I was pissed about were petty. I
couldn't even be there for Christina. She was happy I came but
what was I supposed to say?

I am sure you have stuff like that

in your life as well.
I can admit all of this to myself now.

Once you admit

these things to yourself, you can finally move on.
knows.

And who

Maybe something even better is on the horizon.

I know you are going to keep emailing me.

I know that you

are going to send me newsletter updates for your new tour and
your new record and I am going to get annoyed.

I am going to

froth at the mouth for a second and tell anyone who is around,
anyone who will listen, what an asshole you are.

Who knows who

it will be at that point, but I will tell them, “screw this guy
and his music,” but I won’t email you again.
encouraging you.

That would just be

That would just be giving you the bad kind of

attention, just like Tracy Watts used to long for when she would

In Response to Your E-Newsletter RE: Peter Gabriel … / 14

grab our homework and tear it up or put gum in Heather Sanford’s
hair.

And we both know that kind of attention seeking isn’t

good for anyone.

And eventually, I won’t even bother to delete

the emails you send me.

Every new Peter Gabriel Newsletter that

you send me will sit with all the other 5,000 unread emails in
my inbox that I skip over until I get to the ones from my mom,
or old high school friends, or Guitar Center.

And I will change

my email address one day and stop even looking at the one I was
using when I made the mistake of subscribing to your newsletter
so I could download that free song for my then girlfriend, who
became my wife, and is now my ex-wife.

And I won’t give you my

new address and all those emails you send will be like letters
written to an old apartment, or phone calls made to a closed
business.

And I’ll have moved on.

now, for your own good.

And I am telling you this

I am telling you this now from the

bottom of my heart: I really do want the best for you, Peter.
really do want you to be happy, but if you think that emailing
me is going to make you happy, you are wrong.
you accept that, the happier you will be.

Sincerely,

And the sooner

I

In Response to Your E-Newsletter RE: Peter Gabriel … / 15

Frank Ketchum

P.S. If I ever hear from you again, so help me god I will make
you pay you god damned son of a bitch.
CHRISTS SAKE!!!

LEAVE ME ALONE FOUR


