There he sat again. It was the third time in as many days, the third day that he had
spent an unhealthy amount of time, the third time leaning back, slack-spined, on the old couch,
long and low, thinking of her. She would have called it a davenport. She had, in fact, called it a
davenport, called that very couch a davenport, had called that very couch a davenport… And
now, he sat there, thinking of her, again.
Did he really remember her face? Her hands? Her body? Anything about her? Or did
he only think he did? He knew his memories were real; they had to be. Without his memories,
what did he have? What did he have to connect him to the past, to the future? What did he
have to make sense of anything? What did he have to connect to her? He remembered. He
remembered the wrinkled skin on her thin face like a page from a “Dear John” letter, or a
suicide note, torn out, tightly crumpled, torn up, reassembled, and laid flat again. Too white
and visible veins too blue. Thin lips, painted too red. Always too red. He never remembered
her any other way. She must have been some other way, once, perhaps before he
remembered. He remembered but he did not remember. He remembered skull bones
apparent beneath her old skin. He remembered a red sweater. A red sweater that he no
longer had. He did not know what had ever happened to that red sweater. Where was it now?
Things didn’t just simply disappear. Even if completely transformed: shredded or burned or
buried and decomposing, its molecules and atoms, still existed, somewhere. Its cuttings, at
Worms Waiting for Water

2

least, could not have simply ceased to exist. Where was it now? Thrown away or given away?
Left as an offering? Donated anonymously? Cut into rags? Still being worn but by some old
man who had purchased it for a buck or two at the Salvation Army Thrift Store? At St. Vincent
DePaul’s? Still being worn by that same old man as he lay back, slack-spined, on an old
davenport? Maybe it was in a bag on a shelf in the basement or in the attic. Maybe it was in a
box, folded and stinking of mothballs. Folded. Arms neatly folded across one another, wrist
over wrist, cuff on cuff, in repose. Wrinkled.
He remembered her in episodes. He remembered her in cuttings, if he remembered her
at all. Chris remembered so much and so little. And then he remembered it was Saturday.
That was her day. That was her favorite day…

As a younger man, more than half his life ago, now, Chris had fancied himself an artist.
Ignorant art. A poet. Beat. Beat but too late. A generation too late. Born too late for so many
of the things that had piqued his interest, his excitement. Before that, it had been Big Band
music. After that, the Grateful Dead. As an artist, as an apprentice artist doing a semester with
a famous Latino artist, a locally famous artist, maybe famous state-wide, actually internationally
known, if not famous, who had come to the college as artist-in-residence and to curate an
exhibit. As a much younger man, Chris had worked with a famous Latino artist, several famous
Latino artists, in fact, several famous Latino names in a long tradition of artists: the great-greatgreat (great?) grandson of Arroyo, had held original Posadas in his hands, had rolled sticky black
ink onto 100 year old etched zinc plates with a briar and had pressed with all of his strength to
squeeze out an image, another impression of scrambling skeletons, dressed and scrambling for
Worms Waiting for Water

3

their lives as another earthquake shook their towns apart, their homes and schools, shook their
very bones apart. How many times had that image been repeated over the century since that
plate had first been etched and inked and pressed? How many stubby fat fingers, blackened
with ink, had pressed their weight to squeeze the ink evenly onto rough paper? How many
times had those beautiful skeleton’s bones been shaken apart? Their terror relived over and
over again, trapped in that image, created anew. Set aside for decades at a time or stamped
out daily, stamped out repeatedly in a high-volume extended press run to pay for their sins.
Sunday to Saturday and every day in between. Sunday to Saturday; lust to pride. He
remembered Saturday was her favorite day and it was Saturday now.
Years prior, Chris had watched an old movie with her, most of an old movie. Artificial
black and white screen shots, black and white scenes of calm water which should have rolled
and roiled. Which should have but which did not. It was calm as glass. It was an old movie and
an even older struggle. Man vs. nature. Man vs. himself. An epic struggle which should have
roiled but it did not. Man and marlin, he remembered, were never even in the scene together.
Calm sea which should have roiled, cutaway to swimming marlin. Even the man, the hero,
looking pensively out to sea, over the ship’s bow, gray-faced and plain. Gray and plain. Gray
and plain day after day, days on end, Sunday to Saturday though at sea the names of days had
no meaning. One day was no different from the rest. There was no rest on the weekend. No
hump day. No blue Monday. The names of days had no meaning at sea.
Chris remembered learning the meanings of the names of the days. Sunday was for the
sun, that was Zeus. Monday was the moon’s day. Wednesday was Odin’s, Wodin’s day.
Thursday was for Thor. Saturday, Saturn’s. He remembered Saturday was her favorite day. At
Worms Waiting for Water

4

sea, the names of days have no meaning, no purpose, except perhaps, for idle musing. For
reconstructing tales of how the days were named, and why, during the down times, during all
those times at sea, waiting, all of those days on calm seas which should have roiled. Chris
thought he remembered a scene in that movie, among the other scenes, blacker than most,
wherein the hero, at night, looked out and over the still calm sea and looked out and up into
the night sky, full of stars. He thought he remembered honing in on one star in particular. One
particular star, the Star of the Sea. Did the hero speak? Did he say anything? Anything at all?
Was there a voice-over of internal monologue at least? Or was there just the sea, and the man,
and presumably the marlin, somewhere, unseen? Did he speak or were the only sounds the
sounds of water slapping on water, on prow of boat, of his own sighs, his own breath. The
prow of the boat like scissors. The cutting prow… (… to sail him away… to sail him away…)
Did he speak? Say anything at all? Whisper even? He must have said something. He must
have spoken. Perhaps only to himself. Perhaps to the great fish, unseen. Maybe to the Star of
the Sea. The Star who guides. The Star of the Sea who never betrays her children, who never
abandons her children, high and dry, unable to find their way back home. The star who gives
life. He must have spoken. He must have said something to her glittering blue and white
majesty framed against an almost black sky. He must have. But she did not respond.
Chris thought, half remembering this scene, he should have laid out an offering to her,
to the Star of the Sea: grapes, pineapple, watermelon, bananas, lain out in seashells on the
edge of the deck. He should have laid out coins: seven coins. One coin for each day of the
week. One coin for each day that passed between phases of the moon. Seven coins for the
new moon, seven coins for the first quarter moon, seven for the half, seven for the third
Worms Waiting for Water

5

quarter and seven for the full moon. Laid them out and left them out, twenty-eight for the full
moon. A coin for each day. A fortnight’s worth for waning and a fortnight’s worth for waxing.
Twenty-eight coins for the full cycle of Monday’s goddess, observed by and laid out for the Star
of the Sea. He should have laid out coins and fresh fruit. But where would he find fresh fruit
out at sea? There was nothing fresh to be had and no fruit at all. The same lack of fresh fruit
that caused sailors through the ages to go mad, to die from scurvy, to remember on future trips
to sea to bring fruit, citrus fruit, to bring limes, the fruit that gave them their name. Limeys.
Bring limeys so the limeys don’t get scurvy. So the limeys can find their way back home before
they die. The Star of the Sea, hanging in the sky to remind them to bring limes so the limeys
don’t end up too soon underground or too soon undersea, too soon buried at sea. Buried at
sea from a simple lack of vitamin C. From sea to shining C, see? From C to shining sea. Never
to be seen again. Never again to see the shining Star of the Sea. To spend eternity with the
Star of the Sea.
He should have built an altar to the Star of the Sea, or built an offrenda for the
wandering souls of those lost at sea, to return to. He should have used his idle time to write
calaveras, epitaphs for the dead. He should have donned a top-hat, lit a cigar and banged a
drum to guide the dead, lost at sea, hopelessly wandering and lost. And with his offerings to
the Star, he should have laid out pan de muerto to feed them, to fill their hungry, insatiable
bellies.
Chris thought about those for whom his own belly hungered, those he wished to have
inside of him. Standing on the deck, he thought about what he had lost, who he had lost, and
the opportunities he had let slide away, while there had still been plenty of time. Time he did
Worms Waiting for Water

6

not know would run out until it was too late. Hindsight trumps foresight. A pound of cure. A
pound of flesh. Hindsight trumps foresight every time. And every deck has its joker which
trumps all the rest. That one card in the innocent deck of playing cards which reveals their true
origin, their connection to the past. To the more sinisterly maligned deck. To the fool and the
cards that follow him, the cards that continue to follow him all the way from the ancients.
From Egypt. Still living millennia later after being brought to life out of The Book of the Dead.
Still alive and still speaking. There is room for foresight, but hindsight trumps foresight every
time. He remembered the words of a poet he once liked, fiercely, or at least he remembered a
version of those words, inevitably altered by time. “The heart stops briefly when someone dies.
As they pass from your outside life to inside. And your heart adjusts to the new weight. And
you carry on. Sanely.” He thought about those who were now inside of him. And those he
wanted to let out. Needed to get out. Those whose weight he almost could not bear. And of
course, he thought of her. For the third time in as many days, he thought of her.

Somewhere in a bag or in a box in the basement probably, Chris had an old top-hat, an
old tattered top-hat and some various other small stage props and costumes that friends of his
had stolen, breaking into a local theater, after-hours: wigs, a cane, fake guns and swords, a
black satin vest, a black top-hat with frayed edges, and which smelled musty, a little bit rotten,
a little like something had died. Smelled a little something like death. Sweet, but too sweet,
and dusty. The kind of smell that contorts your face like the onset of a sneeze. But you do not
sneeze. And there is no climactic release from that smell. It sticks in your nose and fills your

Worms Waiting for Water

7

sinuses, seeps into your brain and remains there. Too sweet, it remains. From aft, portside, a
loud thump brought him out of his reverie and he headed back.
In the dark, he could see nothing which might have caused such a loud noise. No
damaged or fallen equipment, no obviously missing parts or parts askew. Everything seemed in
order. In the dark, he could not see damage to the outside of the boat, to the hull, if such
damage even existed. Somewhere inside the boat? Something unseen but steadily causing
more damage, edging him closer to the precipice of expiration? Chris imagined a wayward sea
creature, confused, slamming into the boat. A dolphin or shark or a small whale. Something
mammalian which stayed close to the surface, close to the air. Or something which fed on that
which stayed close to the surface. A predator. A carnivore. The sea was, after all, the largest
expanse on the planet which was still largely unknown to man. More was known about the
surface of the moon than about the floor of the sea. Monday. Moonday. The moon hanging
over the sea, sister to the Star of the Sea. The Moon reflected in the sea, not illuminating, but
masking the depths with its reflected light, reflected yet again. Not illuminating but masking
what lay below the surface. What creatures might lurk therein and only surface once in a
millennium was unknown to him. Unknown to almost anyone. And the sailors had their tales.
Chris remembered years ago, when he had first learned to drive, on land of course, he
remembered talking his reluctant mother into letting him take the car out, after dark. Just to
run to the store. He’d sworn he’d come right back. And on the way, he’d picked up a friend.
Not to cause any trouble or to do anything he should not have, but for fun, for the company.
Not for any planned reason. But because he could. And driving back homeward, on long dark
country roads bordered by trees and cornfields, traversed by the occasional lone wire, sagging a
Worms Waiting for Water

8

bit between lonely poles, not quite vertical, right there, right there in front of him, directly
falling straight out of the sky, right there in front of him on the road, practically on top of them,
a giant beast. He saw its large shiny eye glint in the headlights as its head spun towards him
from the impact. And he swore it saw him too. It looked right at him. It saw him too. And
then, lying flat on the hood, he saw its shiny eye turn glass, vacate. He saw it with his own two
eyes. The hood was crumpled and headlights smashed. The front corner of the fender, spearlike, had torn through the flesh, not like some indigenous hunter’s spear, with its precision, but
violently, vulgarly. Blood and hair stuck to the front of the car and to the fender. Blood ran
down into the small gap at the edge of the hood, grossly widened by the impact. Gaping like a
wound. He saw its thick tongue hang out against cold metal, steam rising upward like a
departing soul. The ghost in the machine, freed at last. Free at last. Free at last. Thank God
Almighty, free at last. Steam still streaming from moist nostrils and wet tongue. Steam
pooling, wispy, on the cold red hood of the car. The crumpled hood… The cold crumpled
hood…
The car’s radio continued to play, continued to play on, and for the first time in several
minutes, as the deer’s dead eye continued to stare at him, Chris heard the music. Short bursts
of a synthesizer layered on top of each other, sliding over one another like eels, like tectonic
plates. Electronic tectonic plates sliding over one another, and under, grinding against each
other and repeated, repeated without variation, then, variation. Chris remembered, in that
moment, another recently heard song. He had recently received as a gift, from his
grandmother, his adopted grandmother, several cassette tapes: Johann Sebastian Bach’s
Preludes and Fugues, Toccatas and Fugues, something and fugues, and the fugues intrigued
Worms Waiting for Water

9

him. Chris did not know a lot about classical music, had not grown up tortured over a piano
repeating etudes. His father listened almost exclusively to Rock and Roll. Mostly 70’s Rock and
Roll. “Hendrix. Clapton. Allman Brothers. Zeppelin. Tull. BTO. Stones. Grand Funk Railroad.
James Gang. T. Rex. MC5. Skynyrd. Lesley West. Blackmore. The Who, the old Who. Ten
Years After. Santana. Thin Lizzy. Aerosmith. Hot Fucking Tuna…” And those layers of
synthesized sound, organ-like, piped back into his mind, a particular minor fugue. Prelude and
Fugue in G minor. He had listened to it several times recently, trying to hear the theme, the
prelude, in the fugue. A couple of times he thought he caught it and it was gone.
Inadvertently, he’d listened enough, listened intensely enough that he knew what the music
felt like, if not the tune. He did not know the tune. But he knew the feel and he felt it in his
shaking bones as the deer’s dead eye stared at him. It was an ominous requiem. Heavy and
boding descent. It sank like the steam on the hood, pouring out of the deer’s mouth and
nostrils, and down the hood, over the fender, seeping into the gaps, sliding over dark blood,
absorbing light. Dark blood like spreading shadows. Rising and disappearing. And sliding again.
The deer’s dead eye stared at him and drew him in. Chris saw nothing but that eye and
it grew before him, came closer. He saw again, the head snap back and toward him, from the
impact, spin around and turn toward him out of the dark, from the impact. Focusing on that
eye, focusing on that eye, he did not see the leg twitch again. He did not see the old man,
wearing a heavy old red sweater, approach his car. He did not see a man in a top hat, nor in a
black vest, smoking a cigar. He saw nothing but that eye. He was certain that that eye, that
dead eye, saw him too, and in that eye, Chris also saw another eye. The eye of Cliff Walker.

Worms Waiting for Water

10

More than a decade before Chris had even been born, Cliff Walker and his family had
been brutally murdered. Christine Walker, Cliff’s wife, had been brutally beaten, smashed. She
had been raped in her son’s bedroom, in her son’s bed, and shot twice. The murderer, the
rapist, had bathed her body and dragged it into the living room. Left it, dead, in the living
room. Sometime afterward, Cliff and the kids returned home. As soon as he entered the
house, he was shot in the face. He had left his gun in the car. Their son, Jimmy, was shot three
times and died next to his father. The daughter was near the mother’s body when she was shot
in the head. She did not die, so the intruder, apparently out of bullets, drowned her in the
bathtub. Chris had recently seen all of this. Still photos on the television. It was the 50somethingth anniversary of the crime. The murderers were never caught. One still photo,
black and white and shades of gray, Chris had seen the family. Christine smiled broadly,
beamed with happiness which could not be beaten. A face which could not be beaten. The
children smiled warmly while Cliff, more serious than the rest, always more serious than the
rest, stared into the camera’s lens, into Chris’ eyes. Stared with eyes that had not stared at
anything, that had perpetually stared, frozen in that photograph, for more than half a century.
And it was those gray eyes, blacker than the rest, that Chris saw in the eye of the deer, the dead
eye of the dead deer. The dead eye of the dead deer slumped, lifeless, over the crumpled red
hood, speared by the bloody fender.
And looking now, into the dark again, aft and portside, looking over the hull of the boat,
into the slapping water, he did not see any damage. There was no crumpled metal, no blood.
Only water, slapping water. Slapping the boat which rocked, raised and lowered with the sea.

Worms Waiting for Water

11

As long as he’d been at sea, he never gotten his “sea legs,” never felt comfortable, or
like he wasn’t in constant danger of falling. Never found his equilibrium. He held onto the
railings. Put his hands on the walls or any surface he could find to steady himself. He never
found his balance. He remembered that in the brain there is a small structure which hangs
down like a fatty pendulum, pulled by gravity. As it is pulled toward the center of the Earth, it
informs the other parts of the brain, through electric impulses, carried rapidly through neurons,
one to another, leaping spark-like over synapses to still other places in the brain, to inform the
brain that the body is leaning, that the body is falling. He did not remember the name of this
structure or where in the brain it resided. Maybe it was in the inner ear. Somewhere near the
smallest bone in the body. The bone which shook and vibrated to tell the brain that there was
sound. Somewhere in the inner ear. He never got his sea legs. The largest bone in the body is
the femur. The big leg bone. The bone from hip to knee. As long as he’d been at sea, he never
did get his sea legs.
Sea legs was a funny term. A funny phrase. Few creatures in the sea even had legs.
Even the fabled humanoid mermaid was all fish and tailfin from the waist down. Sea legs would
be flippers or tailfin. Sea legs was kind of an oxymoron. Chris tried to think of a sea creature
with legs, of a creature with sea legs. He could not. Surely there must be some, one at least.
But he could not conjure it up. He could not remember.
Chris remembered playing “sea danger” as a child. The floor was dangerous shark
infested water. The floor was a mysterious and dangerous sea full of unseen dangers, just
below the surface. Unseen carnivorous beasts, prehistoric beasts, just below the surface, ready
to consume, tear flesh from flesh and shake bones in powerful jaws. Ready to consume
Worms Waiting for Water

12

anyone, or any living thing which broke the surface. To survive, he had to jump from couch to
couch. From chair to chair. From davenport to ottoman. An empire of dangers and an empire
of safe havens. Couches and chairs and davenports and the ottoman. Ottoman was a
ridiculous word. A ridiculous name for an empire. A ridiculous name for a footstool. A large
upholstered stool on wheels in front of the chair, in front of the couch, in front of the
davenport. It must have been an invention from the 15th century, from the East, the near East.
An extravagance for the tired feet of an Agha, or of a Pasha, to rest his weary femur, his heavy
femur. The largest bone in the human body, the top part of the leg.
Sitting back, leaning back on the couch, his feet, his legs up on the big upholstered stool,
he looked down at his legs. He never was able to get his sea legs. One leg had slid down, off of
the ottoman, onto the floor. He could not see that leg, hanging over, dangerously, into the sea.
He never did get his sea legs. Did creatures at sea think about HIS legs, envy him his legs? As
he had envied their ability to breathe underwater? Did they envy him his legs and his ability to
walk upright, on dry land, to breathe dry air? To feel the sun’s warmth on his dry skin? Surely,
if they thought anything at all, they must have thought about what existed above the water,
outside of the water. They must have seen the hulls of boats overhead. Seen nets and lines
and wondered who controlled them, and where their fellow sea creatures went once pulled up.
Surely the fish who escaped a net, got back into the water, flipping fiercely out of the
fisherman’s grip or over the edge of the deck, must have brought back tales. Bright lights and
strange creatures. Creatures that stood upright, out of the water, with pasty white faces, with
black or brown or yellow faces. And useless fins which could only be used for grasping. Strange
creatures which held them captive. Surely, they must have had their tales.
Worms Waiting for Water

13

Chris looked back down at his own legs, his visible leg, his useless tailfin which was not
designed to push water, to propel him. The creatures of the sea, those who lurked, legless, in
the deep, away from the surface, those who never had cause to venture toward the surface and
had never encountered man, except, perhaps, through mythology, if even that, what did they
think of legs? Did they think of them at all? Was there a word for such things? And without a
word for the concept, COULD they think of legs? Even if only thinking of legs as ‘useless fins,’
alien and ill-designed. Could they think of legs any other way, if they thought of legs at all; if
they thought at all, of legs? Could they grasp the concept of “fishing?” Of murder for
something other than for food, for sport? Could they think of sport? Murder for fun, anger,
jealousy… Could they even grasp the idea without words for it? What could walking even
possibly mean to one who ONLY swam? Chris thought again about the Walkers. If Christine
Walker had survived, she’d likely be dead by now anyways. If she had survived, what would she
remember of that day?
What if a mother, any mother, is asked to imagine how she would feel seven years after
the death of her child, 59 years after the death of her child? She will likely focus on that
tragedy and fail to consider the many other events that will happen over that period of time,
capture her attention, require her participation and hence, influence her general emotional
state. She will almost certainly focus almost exclusively on that tragedy and fail to consider
anything else. Fail to even notice, anything else.
Chris thought about a time, a few years back, when his own life made more sense, even
if it was not the sense he had wanted it to make, not necessarily telling the story he had wanted
it to tell, it did at least, make sense. He thought about a time, spent with a friend, before she
Worms Waiting for Water

14

had killed herself, when they had talked and smiled and had generally enjoyed each other’s
company, or so he thought. When they had sat and talked and smiled. Nothing to do but talk
and smile. And sit. She had written, in her note, that she had no one. No one to talk to. No
one who understood. That everyone had their own lives and their own families and they did
not include her. That she had no place. That all she ever wanted, all she ever needed was the
kindness of someone who would listen to her. Who would sit with her, someone who would
listen to her, even when she could not smile. She knew she was messed up and all she ever
needed was someone who would listen, not try to solve her unsolvable problems, but just
listen. And to talk. And everyone was too busy. She was left behind. Left alone. She was too
difficult to deal with. Everyone had their own things: their jobs, their lives, their families, their
happiness. And she had nothing. None of it. And no one would share. No one understood.
And Chris remembered the times with her, just sitting and talking and smiling. He listened but
he did not understand. And he wondered if she even knew he was listening. Believed he was
listening, was listening still, and even though he did not understand, could not understand, did
not want to understand, he wondered if she appreciated his listening. It was selfish, he knew,
this need to be appreciated, but he wondered. He was allowed to wonder.
And some months afterward, Chris had sat at the counter of the local Bob Evan’s
restaurant and drank coffee before going into work. There was a new waitress. Short and fat
with olive skin which darkened in the creases. Large eyes sunk in her fat face. Large eyes
surrounded by bumpy skin, grayish-brown. And when Chris looked at her, he fell in love. He
thought he fell in love, could easily spend the rest of his life happily with her sitting and
listening and for the first time, he understood. She looked back at him, deeply, intensely and
Worms Waiting for Water

15

she knew, even if briefly. She appreciated him and she understood him. She understood and
she appreciated. The next time he stopped in that restaurant, later in the summer when the
days had begun to shorten, not long before sundown, heading into work the graveyard shift,
she was gone. She was no longer there. Did not work there any more.
As Chris sat, again, presently on the couch, on the davenport, he wondered about what
might have become of so many he had lost contact with, so many he had lost. Where were
they all now? And sitting there, he began to notice that he had been there too long. He
needed to get up, to leave, to do something. This remembering was no good. The memories
he could conjure only served to pull him backwards. And he needed to move forward, to
progress. He had been there too long and he needed to move, to go, to do something, to do
something else. Chris lifted his heavy leg off the ottoman, lifted his heavy femur, the largest
and heaviest bone in the human body, off of the ottoman and set it down on the floor.
Throwing all caution to the wind… “I’ve thrown so much caution to the wind, the wind is
almost full of caution.” Throwing all caution to the wind, throwing all caution to the dangerous
sea, he set both feet on the floor and stood on the dangerous ocean, under which, mysterious
and unknown creatures, beasts, monsters, lurked, ready to consume him. And you know what
happens when you consume… He laughed at his joke and walked across the water to his
computer desk, to the wheeled and padded chair by his computer desk. The computer was
already on; it was always on. He never turned it off. He had heard that leaving a computer on,
all of the time, consumed so little energy that it didn’t even make sense to turn it off. Turning it
off and back on, booting down and back up, consumed more energy than just leaving it on all
the time. He never turned it off. Chris remembered talking to his father, in the garage, in his
Worms Waiting for Water

16

father’s garage and he remembered his father telling him that using the computer shortened its
life. That the more you used a computer, the sooner it would die. As if every hour, every
minute it was used brought I closer to its preset hour of expiration and Chris, while he did not
say it, did not have to say it, did not dare say it, not to his father, the only son of his adopted
grandmother, the grandmother who had given him the fugues, did not dare say it out loud, but
he thought it was ridiculous to think that a computer, or anything, had a pre-determined, finite
number of hours of life. There were a million contributing factors, a million million contributing
factors, so many that it could not be calculated. Did he, did his father, did anyone, everyone,
have a preset number of days, of breaths? Did she? And if they breathed too quickly or lived
too much, would it shorten their number of days? And if so, would it be worth it to prolong a
life by not living it while one was alive? What was the purpose, what was the good of having
something longer, something you obtained to use, to interact with, what was the purpose of
having that thing longer if that could only be achieved through NOT using it, not interacting
with it? What then was the purpose of it in the first place? What then was the purpose of
having it at all? The whole idea was preposterous. It didn’t make any sense at all. He thought
all of this; Chris remembered thinking all of this, and he remembered not saying any of this.
Not to his father. To his father.
Chris sat down at his computer, in front of his computer, in the wheeled chair and
opened his emails. Nearly a hundred unopened and 5 times as many already opened, glanced
at or read at least cursorily, and deemed to contain something worth returning to, worth
revisiting, worth not deleting. Even that which was deleted was really only moved, for a time,
to the “deleted” folder, before making its final exit, or being retrieved, saved again, brought
Worms Waiting for Water

17

back and saved “as new.” They were largely ads, mostly advertisements. Many likely contained
malware, viruses which lurked behind each link, in each zipped file, just below the surface.
Malicious worms waiting to be activated. Dehydrated worms waiting for water. Sharks and
carnivores just below the surface.

Worms Waiting for Water


