Eun-Kyung Park stood proud and tall in her dull green uniform as the state news camera
focused on her. This was her moment. They had chosen her out of so many to speak to the entire
nation. She was special, a true symbol of patriotism for North Korea. But more importantly, she
looked healthy and well-fed.
The young woman wanted to shine in that moment and take every advantage of that
opportunity to be someone, an individual, a valuable person, a girl to be remembered. It was her
only chance.
In those moments she would remember how tired she felt inside. It was a fatigue that
ached within her bones. It felt as if the very marrow of her bones were aching, she was so tired.
She had slept the night before, a full eight hours, but in her mind it felt as if she’d endured a
thousand sleepless nights and was being called to perform on the thousandth and first.
If only she could sleep awhile longer. That seemed to be her greatest wish; to sleep in a
soft bed in a warm room in stillness and quiet. Eun-Kyung had visions of Korea from years past
in which such peace once existed and such beautiful stillness could be found. She always
wondered where those visions came from because such things weren’t taught about. But she
knew about all of it and it seemed to her like they were the memories of her own ancestors who
had lived in a Korea far more beautiful than the North Korea she now lived in.

1

But of course, she couldn’t let her fatigue show on her face as the cameras were
recording. So she did what she had always done. With the fingers of her spirit, she reached deep
down; very deep down into her soul and pulled up a small portion of the last vestiges of her
strength and resolve. It was like drawing water from a well that was always near-empty and
constantly being dug deeper to find more water.
And with those last vestiges of strength, she opened her mouth to speak.
Her voice was triumphant. It was strong and determined. It was loud and exaggerated.
Even her posture exhibited these qualities, with shoulders straight and head held high, using her
right hand and fist to add emphasis to her words of patriotism. And what was her speech about?
Kim Jong-Un’s show of strength to the entire world as he threatened South Korea with his
nuclear weapons.
It was a display that irked North Korea’s neighbors and made the entire world groan.
That’s never quite the response one hopes for when flaunting his power, but that’s exactly the
response North Korea will always get. The DPRK is like the youngest child of a family.
Everyone sees him, but no one respects him. And when this child throws fits and tantrums, all he
receives is a patronizing pat on the head with a smile or nod.
But this time, finally, the father figure, the great China, has grown weary of this child’s
tantrums. He’s always been there to help and support his wayward son, but perhaps he’s finally
seeing his child’s delinquency. Meanwhile, South Korea, the mother figure, has always been
harsh and bitter with this unruly child, never willing to concede to the tantrums or give attention
to the shouting and screaming of one so undisciplined. She sees him as an embarrassment and a
disgrace.
2

When Eun-Kyung was finished with her speech and the cameras had been shut off, she
was able to let go of the strength she was grasping in her shaking hand and fall back into the
fatigue she knew so well. Her moment of fame and pride was over and there was no reward for it.
She returned to her dormitory at the campus of the military academy in Pyongyang where
she was studying. Collapsing onto her bunk, she closed her eyes and took in a long slow breath,
her black hair falling over her eyes and nose. She could smell the shampoo she and everyone else
used. Its scent was stale, the shampoo old and past its expiration date.
Eun-Kyung thought about the situation that had developed in her country and what Kim
Jong-Un was creating for himself. It was entirely idiotic. She thought the Supreme Leader was a
moron, and she knew if her thoughts were ever heard, she would be sent to a labor camp. But,
she already felt like she was imprisoned. Her anger led to even more exhaustion and she finally
fell asleep.
When Eun-Kyung awoke she could have sworn she smelled something unusual. It was a
pleasant and savory scent, something that awakened all of her senses. It smelled like…food.
It was dark outside. She’d slept right through the evening and it was now around
midnight. Eun-Kyung got out of bed and stepped slowly towards her door, which went out into a
hallway. She lived in the women’s military dormitory.
She opened the door a little and peeked out into the hall and the savory odor hit her even
stronger. It was mouthwatering. She knew the scent was familiar, but she could barely name it.
The word was on the tip of her tongue. Flashes of this food streaked through her mind, as if
she’d once tasted it.

3

Eun-Kyung entered the hallway and followed the scent down a number of doors until she
found herself by a door ajar out of which a soft light, the smell of the food, and voices came. She
slowly opened the door and her eyes widened at what she saw.
Inside the dorm room was a party. A group of four girls were seated around a traditional
Korean table. Paper lanterns hung from the ceiling, casting a soft golden glow about the room. It
was nothing at all like the dull cold dorm rooms she’d slept in. It was welcoming, warm, and
joyful. Something unheard of in North Korea.
And the table was piled with food, unlike anything Eun-Kyung had seen in her life. They
were traditional Korean dishes, but Eun-Kyung had never eaten them. The number of bowls and
plates alone impressed her, but the food was unimaginable.
She saw bowls of kimchee, steaming white rice, bi bim bop, plates of mandu and seafood
pancakes. There were bowls of soup, too, regional specialties of Pyongyang: Pyongyang
naengmyeon and Taedonggang sungeoguk. And she even saw kalbi, barbecued beef short ribs.
This kind of food could never be found in North Korea. The only one with access to it was Kim
Jong-Un. His fat face was evidence of that.
The girls seated around the table drank soju from small porcelain cups and they smiled at
Eun-Kyung. They were friendly and Eun-Kyung didn’t feel as though she were crashing their
party. She actually felt invited. It was such a wonderful feeling.
Eun-Kyung sat down at the table, so happy she was crying, but as one of the girls
prepared a dish of food for her, everything began to blur and she suddenly realized it had been a
dream.

4

When Eun-Kyung finally woke up, for real, she was crying. The only thing in the dream
that had been real was the tears. It was dark outside though, but no scent of food wafted through
her room. It was cold and quiet in the dormitory. She felt hungry, but knew she had missed
dinner and there weren’t any late night snacks to be had. The reality of it was too harsh. She
gritted her teeth, feeling angry, furious even. She closed her eyes again and tried desperately to
recall the dream. If only she could taste the food on that table, she would feel better.
The next morning Eun-Kyung was rather popular among her group of friends. They
couldn’t believe she had been on TV. They considered it such an honor and Eun-Kyung had to
admit that it was an exciting moment, even though it had been fleeting.
“What was it like?” asked one of the girls.
“It really wasn’t anything too special. There was a bright light in my face and they just
asked me to comment on the current situation,” said Eun-Kyung.
“But your face is going to be all over North Korea!”
“Yeah, wherever there’s a television,” she replied.
“We didn’t see you at all yesterday afternoon and you weren’t at dinner. What happened?”
asked another girl.
“Oh. I was so tired after the TV crew interviewed me. I just went back to my room and
fell asleep.”
“Then you didn’t hear the news! We’re going to see the nuclear missiles today! The
Supreme Leader is parading them through Pyongyang as they head off towards the DMZ,” said
her friend.
5

“Really? Wow,” said Eun-Kyung.
Somehow she wasn’t as excited as her friends. It was ironic given how she’d just touted
them on TV the day before. She knew that had all been a farce though.
“So what time does the parade start?” asked Eun-Kyung.
“We have to be at the square in front of Kumsusan Memorial Palace at 1:00pm.”
Eun-Kyung thought about sharing her dream with her friends, but she felt the dream was
too sacred to be spoken out loud and perhaps too outrageous for them. She decided to keep it a
secret.
All the girls jabbered excitedly, but the only thing Eun-Kyung felt was a sense of
annoyance…and hunger. She wasn’t interested in looking at those blasted weapons, which had
caused so much grief for the people of North Korea. It was because of those weapons, and the
government’s horrific greed, that the people had been without food for so long and were living in
destitution.
Eun-Kyung was relatively lucky to be in the military and living in Pyongyang, but even
the soldiers hungry most days, eating only rations of rice and little protein. It was ridiculous to
think that the North Korean army could fight a battle given their widespread state of malnutrition.
Those missiles had sucked up everything the country had and they were all for the
purpose of making the Supreme Leader’s dick look big. Sure, it had been started by his father,
but there’s hardly a difference between them.

6

Of course, Eun-Kyung had to attend the parade. It wasn’t optional. Nothing is really
optional in North Korea. So at 12:30pm she and her friends gathered with their unit to march
towards the palace.
It was a beautiful and cold sunny day. The sky was bright blue and long thin white clouds
stretched out into the distance. Ever since she was a little girl, Eun-Kyung imagined skating
across just such clouds and dreamed of where they might take her. It was exciting to think of
what lay beyond the borders and she had spent many hours picturing those foreign lands where
no one could dictate her. But most of all, she wondered what people ate. She wondered if anyone
in the world had enough food or if they all felt hungry like her.
Many people were being gathered in the square in front of the palace for the parade.
Policemen herded them along in groups, making sure no one dropped out. The different military
battalions marched in unison, their black jackboots stomping along the pavement.
The city was quiet and dull, as usual. It was a sorry excuse for a showcase city or a
national capital, but of course, by North Korean standards it’s like Macau. It’s a city that only
appears inhabitable, yet the streets are empty and the sidewalks see few pedestrians. Strange
conglomerations of soldiers and civilians can be found in the city squares practicing for state-run
performances or some other government-scheduled event, and nobody truly has a life of their
own.
After everyone had arrived in the square in front of the memorial palace, the grandiose
building which housed Kim Il-Sung’s and Kim Jong-Il’s embalmed bodies, the ceremony began
with Kim Jong-Un standing on a balcony high above the people without a smile on his face. He

7

has an entire nation to himself, yet he, like his forefathers, can’t even grant them a smile. Their
allegiance and obedience is boring to him.
Music from one of the state orchestras plays loudly across the square and the parade
begins with soldiers marching and women dancing in traditional Korean dress. Eun-Kyung
watched as they passed by, the parade feeling lifeless, without a soul.
After multiple battalions and marching bands passed, the showpieces arrived, the nuclear
missiles that the Supreme Leader had ordered to be sent to the DMZ. They were massive and
incredible to see up close. Even though Eun-Kyung hadn’t been excited about it, she was awed at
the sight of these terribly destructive weapons coming so close to her.
The missiles were mounted on giant military trucks with enormous wheels. The trucks
spewed greyish-blue exhaust with every foot traveled and rumbled across the stone pavement of
the square. Eun-Kyung wished the missiles would somehow be lost, disappear without a trace.
Just the thought of that made her grin. She could imagine the chaos Kim Jong-Un would be in if
his precious bombs went missing. It would be a victory for the entire country.
As the first missile passed in front of her, Eun-Kyung looked at it carefully and noticed
something peculiar. There was a panel along the side of the missile facing her that looked partway open, like a screw had come loose. But what really caught her attention was the arrival of a
familiar scent.
As she stared at the loose panel on the missile, the odor of food wafted past her nose as if
a bowl of soup was right in front of her face. It was so strong she decided to pinch herself to
make sure she wasn’t dreaming. It was real.

8

She looked to her right and left and asked her friends, “Do you smell that?”
They stopped and sniffed the air and a confused look came over them.
“What is that?” they asked her.
“I think it’s food,” said Eun-Kyung.
“But where would it be coming from? It smells like a feast!”
Eun-Kyung looked back at the missile, which was just passing her.
Without thinking any further, Eun-Kyung broke away from the group and ran through the
barrier created by the police to keep everyone at a distance. She charged full-speed towards the
truck carrying that first missile and quickly reached it since the trucks drove very slowly. She
jumped onto it and climbed up the chassis to where the missile was docked.
By then the police were shouting, ordering her to get down, but Eun-Kyung ignored them.
She grabbed hold of the loose panel on the missile and yanked it. It opened with ease, the other
screws flying loose. The panel dropped and fell off the truck, clanging on the stone ground. And
inside the missile, behind that panel, Eun-Kyung saw a horde of food giving off the exact scent
she had smelled in her dream.
She turned around and screamed.
“Look! Look at this!”
Everyone stared at her and at the missile. They could see what was inside: beef, noodles,
chicken, cabbage, eggs, rice, fruit, and everything they didn’t have. It was literally falling out of
from the opening, spilling onto the ground below.
9

After what seemed like an eternity, the people broke through the barricades and charged
towards the weapon filled with food. They swarmed around the truck, forcing it to stop, and then
climbed on top so they could grab what was inside the missile.
The parade ground to a halt at that moment and when the word had spread throughout all
the crowds, the other missiles were swarmed and torn open and each one was discovered to
contain incredible quantities of food.
Even the police and the soldiers were overwhelmed by it. Their own hunger was at the
breaking point and they didn’t try to fight the crowd. Instead, they joined them in gathering the
food.
The trance of allegiance and loyalty to the Supreme Leader was overcome by the
people’s hunger and they no longer cared about obeying him. His disgusting secret had finally
been revealed. All of North Korea’s resources had been used in the creation of those missiles,
leaving nothing for the people to survive off of. He had horded what he needed for himself and
wanted to waste the rest on destruction.

It was like déjà vu when Eun-Kyung and her friends gathered together around a table to
eat and drink as much as they could. The table was filled with dishes of the most delicious
Korean foods and a spirit of happiness filled the room, one that was more powerful than any fear
ever to crawl out of the president’s palace. The people had buried fear and the bodies of the
leaders who reeked of it and the land of North Korea once again produced crops enough for
everyone to find sustenance.

10

As they ate and laughed, Eun-Kyung suddenly remembered the dream she’d had. She
couldn’t believe she’d forgotten it. It seemed like ages ago.
“Did I ever tell you about the dream I had before the parade?”
The room grew quiet as Eun-Kyung shared her sacred vision. The paper lanterns glowed
softly around the room and the scene before her never faded out.

11


