The beginning of the dinner party, the part I liked best, was always the same. Us kids ate pizza
(now with gluten free crust—in the last year we’d all become celiac-sensitive), while our parents,
holding white bean dip on a sesame cracker in one hand and a glass of white wine in the other,
got us to talk about things. What Spanish vocabulary had we lately learned? Which part of
Montessori gym class did we like better, kickball or yoga? Had our opinions on the Iraq invasion
changed now that there was conclusive evidence Saddam had never possessed WMDs?
“Jesus Christ Murray!” Miles’ mother said. “They’re kids!”
“Which means they can’t have intelligent thoughts?” This was my father, Murray, the
one who had asked the question about WMDs. He knew my thoughts on the war in Iraq; to keep
up with Current Events I was supposed to read and discuss one newspaper article per day. The
question was directed at the four other kids. Meanwhile he smiled at me in that way I loved, the
way that reminded me that—even though right now there was a woman with Twizzler red hair
with her hand on his leg—we shared a secret. The secret was this: we were better than everyone
else.
“She’s right,” Jackson’s dad said, snorting like my golden retriever Sally when she
sneezes. “There’s a limit. Soon you’re going to be asking them about Abu Ghraib.”
“What’s Aboo Graeeb?” said Miles, who was the youngest of us. But I had been
wondering the same. How was it possible that I didn’t know about a current event?
“Some very bad men did some very bad things,” said Miles’ mother.
“Not just men,” said Jackson’s mother.

1

We were sitting on the couches no one liked because they were too Ergonomic, loosening
mulberries stuck to the soles of our shoes. It was the time of year when the berries were
everywhere, on windshields and sidewalks and dog paws.
“Maybe it’s time for you all to go upstairs and play,” Drew’s mom said.
“What did the bad men do?” Miles asked his mother.
“I’ll tell you when you’re older,” she said.
“When when I’m older?”
Miles’ mother rolled her eyes at my father to say: Thanks for starting this. “When you
finish Suzuki Level Six.”
Jackson whispered something to Miles, something I couldn’t hear, and Miles seemed to
relax. On the car ride over, after the woman with Twizzler hair had pushed her seat back against
my calves without thinking to ask if she was squishing me, my father had warned me about
Jackson. “Every year that kid gets worse,” he’d said. “His parents’ relationship is poisoning him.
Don’t let him make you do anything you don’t want to do.”
“What’s wrong with his parents?” I’d asked.
“People who don’t belong together shouldn’t stay together.” At this he looked at the
woman with Twizzler hair, congratulating himself for being with her now instead of my mother.
They squeezed hands over the transmission.
Now Drew’s mother was handing me a plate piled with pizza slices. “Nora, take this
upstairs, would you? You kids have hardly eaten anything.” I was the one given the pizza even
though Drew was her son and even though Jackson was the oldest. All the parents knew I liked
sitting with the adults more than playing with the kids, which led them to assume I was the most
responsible.

2

“Remember the rules!” Drew’s mom called after us. The rules were what they always
were: no using the parental home offices for hide and seek, no pestering the guinea pig, video
games are not an appropriate form of entertainment, no flipping the lights because of Miles’
epilepsy, no bothering the adults until dessert.
Upstairs, I didn’t even bother asking anyone if they wanted the pizza. I went straight to
the bathroom and tipped the plate into the trash. I piled some paper towels on top to hide it. The
marinara smell mixed with the smell of the dried lavender in a vase on top of the sink. I don’t
know why they thought I was the responsible one. I didn’t want to be and had never pretended
otherwise.

That night there were the four of us regulars plus Saara, Drew’s half-black cousin from South
Africa. We were all only children and except for Saara we’d grown up with these dinner parties,
a couple times a semester, rotating houses with about the same frequency as Sidney, our school
iguana in his smudgy tank. It was the job of the kid whose house it was to keep the rest of us
from being bored. Tonight was Drew’s night. Now we watched him pull a string on the ceiling
next to his father’s office to release a wooden ladder that led to the attic. This had been cool the
first time we saw it; tonight must have been the third. But we hauled ourselves up the rungs into
the musty darkness, because what else was there to do?
The attic was hot and dim as if it were always evening there. Two dehumidifiers lurked
in the corner, dehumidifying nothing. Above the one dirty window there was a small circle of
ruby glass. Miles seemed like he wanted to look at it, so I lifted him up. Our cheeks touched, and
I felt his porcelain-pretty skin next to mine, which was bumpy from rosacea. I hated my skin.
The woman with Twizzler hair said it was going to get worse before it got better. She also said

3

my breasts would ache and that I would feel new things “down there.” Some of them might be
good, some of them not so good. She said that someone needed to tell me these things if my own
mother wouldn’t. I didn’t know until then that my mother wasn’t telling me things. I wasn’t sure
I wanted the woman with Twizzler hair to tell me them instead.
Miles’ skin was like rice paper—you could almost see through it.
It was true that I always took care of Miles at these dinner parties. But I didn’t do it for
the reason the parents thought. It was more that I had always wanted a little brother even though
I accepted my father’s excuse: that I was, and would always be, enough for him.
“In South Africa we have a servant,” Saara said, “and he lives in a room like this.”
“If you lived here,” Jackson said, “you wouldn’t have enough money for a servant.”
Every dinner party we had to learn all over again how mean Jackson was. I remembered
my father’s words in the car. I considered crawling backwards down the ladder, going back
downstairs and demanding to stay with the adults. But then Jackson and probably even Drew
would make fun of me. Also, I wouldn’t be able to lean my head against my father’s shoulder
because the woman with the Twizzler hair would have gotten there before me.
So instead I traced curse words in the dust with my sneakers along with the rest of them,
caught hold of the rafters and swung back and forth. After two minutes we were all bored again.
Jackson let out a smirky sigh. He had flouncy blond hair, pizza crust still gummed to his braces
and eyes that told anyone who looked in them that he knew everything. “Is this all you got?”
Drew grinned like he had been waiting for Jackson to complain. “If that’s your attitude, I
might as well not even show it to you.”
We perked up, impressed with Drew’s retort.

4

“Jesus Christ Drew!” Jackson said, and I realized that sounded familiar because Miles’
mother had said it to my father just minutes before. “Just show us!”
Drew still took his time opening the sliding wooden door to the closet and scuffling
around inside like he had something important to do. After a minute Jackson shoved his way in.
“Not bad,” we heard him say.
The rest of us followed to see what it was. It was a laundry chute. A square door flat
against the closet floor that opened onto metal walls reaching down into darkness.
“And that isn’t even the best part,” Drew said, unable anymore to hold in his excitement.
I wondered if he had been saving the chute for a special dinner party or if he had just discovered
it himself. “The best part is that if we stop in the right place we’ll be inside the dining room
walls. We’ll be able to hear everything they say.”
This was enticing, but it meant we actually had to go down the chute. We clustered
around the entrance, staring into the void.
“I don’t wanna go down there,” Miles said.
“No one’s forcing you,” Jackson said.
“I’ll carry you on my lap,” I offered, even though anyone could see there was no way we
could both fit. I figured this would calm him until I could quickly push him down. The opening
was just big enough for one kid—not just any kid but a kid like us, a kid who practices the cello
and builds Lego castles after school instead of going to Little League.
“Give me a minute lead time to wedge my feet where the chute bends.” Drew sat down
with his feet already dangling down the hole. “And then the rest of you follow. Try not to fall too
fast and try not to land on my neck.”

5

Then he was in, head zipping away, scrunching his arms against his body. Saara counted
out the minute in Mississippis. Next went Jackson, who had to hold his arms above his head to
get his chest through. Then Saara, who had beads on the end of her dreadlocks that scraped
against the metal as she slid.
“OK Miles.” I sat him on my lap at the rim of the chute. “On the count of three.” He must
have known what I was going to do. “Close your eyes,” I said. On three I pushed him away from
me. He cried out. I could only hope our parents didn’t hear. I followed close behind.
I arrived in a second. Miles’ head was in my crotch, and my butt was up against cold
metal. There was a faint slice of light from the attic bulb above, but it was only enough to know
that there were boundaries between us and the darkness around us, not to know where those
boundaries were. I breathed in particles of darkness. Was this how it felt to be buried alive?
We listened for our parents. I could hear Drew’s mom saying something fuzzy, and then
the dull-edged voice of Jackson’s dad.
“Did you know Graner got that girl holding the leash pregnant?”
“Why do you know his name but not hers? It’s just, ‘that girl holding the leash.’” This
was Jackson’s mom.
“What, do you know it?”
“Lynndie England.” She spoke the syllables carefully. Inside the chute someone,
probably Miles, began to hyperventilate. But we had to last a little longer; we had to hear more.
“I couldn’t stop looking at that terrible grin on Graner’s face,” Miles’ dad said.
“And those gloves!” This was Jackson’s mom again. “Teal never looked so sinister.”
“Admit it,” Jackson’s dad said. “It turns you on.”
“What you could possibly mean, I don’t—”

6

“The whole scenario. The power play, the props, the photography.”
“I can’t believe you just said that.” There was silence: a few forks clattered. They were
probably eating rosemary-roasted chicken or seafood risotto, though it was hard to say for sure.
“Oh, don’t be such a prude.”
“It’s torture. It has nothing to do with sex.”
“Suit yourself,” Jackson’s dad said, and then there was more silence.
Inside the chute even Miles had stopped breathing. I was amazed at our luck. To hear
Jackson’s parents talking about sex! This must be the real reason why we weren’t allowed to eat
with the adults.
“Can I refill anyone’s wine glass?” Drew’s mom’s voice was too bright.
Jackson’s mom spoke again, quickly. “He’s not going to tell you, so I guess I have to.
We’re getting a divorce.”
Again, silence. Someone in the chute actually gasped. Was it Jackson? I wondered what
my father was doing. From the table outside came a soft wall of sound.
“It’s fine,” Jackson’s mom continued. “Don’t waste your breath on regrets. Just do what
you need to do—form your allegiances, choose between us as you must.”
There was another cloud of voices, probably people saying it didn’t have to be that way.
But I didn’t have time to figure it out because in an instant Miles had slipped out from under me
and we were falling fast and then landing hard, on our heels and tailbones, on Drew’s fortunately
finished and carpeted basement floor.

Miles had wet his pants. This was clear once we stood up and rubbed our butts and noticed the
wet spot, which Saara said looked like South Africa. It was good, in a way, because the peed

7

pants were a problem we could work on instead of having to look at Jackson. Except what could
we do? Drew’s pants were too big, never mind that if we went upstairs to ask his parents for
some we’d have to say what we’d been up to. Besides, Miles didn’t seem to care. He must have
been too young to feel shame because he was standing there smiling, happy to be out of the
chute.
So there really was nothing to do but stare at Jackson.
“What?” he said finally. “What?”
“It’s bad at first,” I said. “But you get used to it after a while.”
Jackson looked at me as if he hadn’t really noticed, before now, that I was there. “And
then my dad’ll start going with a slut, right?”
It took me a second to realize he was talking about the woman with the Twizzler hair. I
clenched my teeth against the warm wet coming from behind my eyes. It wasn’t that I wanted to
defend her, but I felt the insult on my father’s behalf. I thought of my mother, who I stayed with
on Mondays, Tuesdays and alternating weekends, saying that we shouldn’t judge men who
wanted to be with younger women but that We Had to Wonder. What did we have to wonder
about? She wouldn’t say.
I looked at the others; no one was going to say anything to help me. I said, “You’re an
asshole, and you have pizza sauce on your forehead.” Jackson scrubbed at the mark, looking a
tiny bit embarrassed.
“What happened with your parents?” Saara asked Jackson finally. Saara could be braver
than us because soon she would go home across the world and never see us again.
He waited for a while and just when I thought he wouldn’t say anything he said, “They’re
both fucktards, But they’re smart to get divorced. I’m never going to get married. When you’re

8

not married you’re free to bone anyone you want.” The pizza sauce was gone from his face but
there was a pink mark where the red had been, from where he’d rubbed.
“Did your father do anything?” Saara asked. I had been wondering the same thing. And
then it occurred to me that my own parents’ divorce was probably my father’s fault. That it was
hypocritical for me to love him more.
Jackson scowled and withdrew again. “You don’t have to do anything to get a divorce.
This is America. Anyone can get a divorce here.”
“Anyone can get divorced in South Africa, too,” Saara pointed out.
“Still,” Jackson said, as if he, not Saara, was the expert on South Africa. “It’s different.”
That was when I noticed Miles. Miles was sitting on the chair by the basement computer,
typing something. When I went over to see what it was Miles said, “I can’t find it.”
“Find what?” I looked on the screen. Miles had put “blue grape” into Google. The
monitor seemed to exhale something sour.
“I got this,” Jackson said from the other side of the room. “I promised him I’d show
him.” I remembered Jackson whispering into Miles’ ear upstairs. Jackson made Miles get up so
he could sit in the rolling chair that didn’t roll, since it rested on carpet.
A-B-O-O G-R-A-H-E-E-B, Jackson typed.
Did you mean ‘Abu Ghraib’? Google asked, and Jackson clicked on the question to say
he did. I turned the words over in my mind, these words that had been on our parents’ lips all
night. It sounded like the kind of place you would go on a flying carpet, until I saw the pictures.
There were people piled on top of each other. The people were naked and their private
parts had been blurred out. Some had hoods tied around their heads. Jackson let the slideshow
play once, then started it again. The article was dated today, which explained why our parents

9

had been obsessed and why my father hadn’t gotten around to giving me anything to read about
it. What would he say when he did? There was a photo of a man in what looked like a tattered
black sheet. He held up his arms and wires wormed out from the sheet. Jackson clicked back to
the naked photos. People in army uniforms were standing over the naked people. One of them,
the one with the teal gloves Jackson’s mom had talked about, gave the thumbs up.
“That’s Aboo Greeb?” Miles said, eyes wide.
“That’s it.” Jackson gave a thumbs-up back to the man.
He let the slideshow run again and we watched—we wouldn’t have been able to turn
away if we’d wanted to. I tried to understand what the people in uniform were doing to the naked
men. Was this what sex was? I thought I understood about the penis and the vagina, but this was
different. Was this what my father did with the woman with Twizzler hair? I thought about her
tight jeans, the way my father liked to look at her butt when she turned to leave the room. He’d
never looked at my mom that way.
“Kids!” The voice came from upstairs. “Are you all right?”
Footsteps. Jackson minimized the webpage. We were used to this kind of secrecy.
“Dad!” Drew said. “Everything’s fine.”
Drew’s dad appeared at the head of the basement stairs looking frazzled. One of his shirt
buttons hung from a thread. “I thought you all were upstairs.”
“We snuck by you, Dad. We made a game out of it.”
“Oh. Tricky of you.” Drew’s dad looked like he wanted to talk to us longer, like he was
searching for an excuse not to go back to the company at his table. He turned to Jackson. We
knew what was coming.
“Jackson, I’m so sorry about…about your parents.”

10

Jackson shrugged. It was obvious that it killed him not knowing what to say.
“But you’re a big boy,” Drew’s father added. “You can handle it, right?”
We winced. Jackson hung his head lower, muttered something.
“What was that?” Drew’s dad said.
“Nothing.”
“Are you sure?”
“Yes.”
“What are you all looking at?” Drew’s father pointed to the desktop.
Jackson was still sulky and didn’t reply, so I jumped in. “Current events,” I said as if I’d
planned it all along.
Drew’s dad nodded like he hadn’t really heard me and shuffled off. After he was gone we
couldn’t relax because of how embarrassed we were for Jackson.
“Your dad’s a faggot,” Jackson told Drew.
Drew swallowed. His Adam’s apple had grown since the last dinner party. “Maybe it’s
your dad who’s the faggot. Maybe that’s why your parents are getting divorced.”
In what looked like one motion Jackson stood up and shoved Drew, hard, knocking him
onto the carpet and scrambling to get on top. Drew’s first defense was to put his palm right in the
center of Jackson’s face, covering his eyes and nose and part of his mouth. Jackson started
cussing, but it came out garbled. He grabbed hold of Drew’s hand and twisted at the wrist. Drew
howled.
“Be quiet,” Saara said. “Your dad will come by again.”
They stopped to look at her and it broke the spell of the moment. Jackson rolled off and
Drew sat up, rubbing his wrist. For a minute they sat there angry and panting and the rest of us

11

put our heads in our hands, glum. I was keyed up at bored all at the same time. It was hard to see
how anything we could do now could match the excitement of the laundry chute, of the darkness
and what we’d heard outside.
Drew cleared his throat, as if to remind himself to keep us occupied. “Let’s think of a
project,” he said. In a few years he could be a camp counselor. Laughter sounded from upstairs; I
could pick out my father’s from the rest, a low scraping chuckle. Maybe all was well at the table
again. Maybe they had moved on to another course, crisp Asian pears maybe, with sharp cheddar
from some family farm upstate.

Later like all our parents my father asked, “How did it begin?” I understood that it was important
to know but I honestly couldn’t say for sure. I told him this much: that Drew gathered the
supplies, that Jackson made Miles our model. “But how did you come up with the idea in the
first place?” he insisted. I told him about the laundry chute, about what we’d heard. But how we
got from that to the costume wasn’t ever going to be able to be explained by the part of my brain
that formed the whys I later gave like an art class Sculpey pot to the adults. This was the truth:
we just did it.
Drew found supplies in big plastic storage crates lined up along the sides of the
basement, where past Halloween costumes lay tangled with lanyard string and glue gun
ammunition and squares of felt. In fact it was an old ghost costume from some thrown-together
Halloween, when Drew’s parents had probably been busy preparing for conferences or swamped
with committee work or student papers, that gave us the sheet we needed for the basic form. We
divided the tasks, Jackson and Drew forgetting about their fight now that they had something to

12

do. Saara cut the edge of the sheet into tatters. I pinned the top into a hood shape. We tried it on
Miles, who complained he couldn’t see.
“You’re lucky we’re letting you do anything at all,” Jackson said, and Miles stopped
complaining.
We tied bits of string to the ends of the sheet’s tatters and stepped back to survey our
work.
“Cool,” Drew said.
“It looks just like the picture,” Saara said.
But Jackson wasn’t satisfied. “We need to stand him on something.”
Drew pulled out an empty cardboard box. I lifted Miles (still a little damp around the
crotch) on top, but soon the bottom gave way. It was my idea to stand him on the laundry
machine instead. Once he was up there we told him to raise his arms and spread his hands wide
and stay there, and he did. He did everything we told him to.
When we had everything set up we decided we needed to take a picture. Drew went
upstairs to get a camera, promising not to say anything about what we were up to. He was gone
for longer than we thought he’d be. We dragged out some beanbags from the corner and slumped
down into them. Miles complained his arms were getting tired. We told him he could sit down
and he did, Velcro sneakers dangling, heels knocking the laundry machine like a timpani drum.
A corner of the sheet had gotten caught up in one of his pockets, giving us a view of his shorts
again, the wet stain still obvious. The same thing must have occurred to Saara as it did to me,
because she said, “He should say he spilled juice on his pants.”
“They’ll be able to smell,” I said.
Saara nodded.

13

“Go get some perfume or something from the bathroom upstairs,” Jackson told Saara.
Saara left to do this and Drew came back down, which was good because I didn’t know
what I was going to say to Jackson, just the two of us sitting there and Miles confused on top of
the laundry machine.
“Our parents are still talking about it,” Drew reported. “They’re talking about how they
would torture someone, if they had to.” He looked at Miles. “Your dad says that in the Middle
Ages they’d put a guy in a cage in the bright sun and cover him with food scraps and let the birds
peck at him.”
Miles smiled proudly. “My dad’s a medieval historian.”
Saara came back with a bar of soap. “This was all I could find,” she said.
We lifted the sheet and rubbed the soap on Miles’ shorts, turning the zipper gummy
white. Now he smelled like pee and Shea Butter. He giggled, enjoying the attention.
Drew turned to me. “Your dad’s girlfriend thinks the best way to torture someone is to
tell them endless knock-knock jokes on no sleep.”
“She’s not his girlfriend,” I said before I knew I said it.
“Well what is she, then?”
“I don’t know.” The fact was that she was his girlfriend, so now I was in a tough place.
“She’s new.”
“Anyway,” Drew said. “They’re about to eat tiramisu but we can’t have it because it’s
got liquor in it. We can have ice cream, though, if we come upstairs soon.”
“Let’s just get the picture over with,” Jackson said. “Miles, get up.”
Miles stood on top of the machine again, shaking the strings into place. Jackson took the
camera from Drew because of course he was the rightful picture taker. He looked for some time

14

through the display window and then lowered the camera. “One more thing,” he said. He
switched the camera to video record, then walked to the laundry machine and turned the dial to
“spin cycle.” When he pulled the knob Miles began to vibrate.
Jackson stepped back, took up the camera again and began to record. “Perfect,” he said.
Miles’ whole body was quivering, the strings alive now, jumping and shaking. The whole thing
looked pretty professional, and I was proud even though some part of me knew we were doing
something wrong. Miles didn’t say anything, which was a little weird. Somehow he didn’t quite
seem like Miles anymore.
Jackson switched from video record to camera. There was a warning bleep and then flash.
Flash again, and once more to be sure. All this time Miles was shaking—the picture would be
blurry but that was ok—it would be part of the effect.
“All right,” Jackson said. “Let’s go.” I pushed the laundry knob to stop the spin cycle.
The laundry machine came to a halt, but Miles didn’t stop shaking.
“We’re done,” we reminded him. “Get down. Quit acting.”
But he kept at it, his whole body convulsing. It was like he didn’t have any control over
what he was doing anymore. And then I remembered: the camera flashes, the rule not to flip the
lights, the stress we’d put him under…epilepsy!
“Oh my god,” I said.
For forever, which was probably just one or two seconds, we couldn’t do anything. We
stood there transfixed by the spasms in his arms and legs. Then Miles’ legs buckled and he was
lying half on top of the washer, half sliding to the floor, and I started to say catch him but he’d
already rolled all the way onto the carpet. He twitched, he wouldn’t stop twitching. “Get the

15

sheet off him,” Jackson hissed, and then all our hands were on him at once, pulling up the sheet
while also trying to pin his arms down, as if enough pressure would quiet the demon inside.
“Not just the sheet,” Jackson said, his breathing quick and torn. “All of his clothes. Take
all of them off.”
There wasn’t time to wonder why we needed to do this, though later I would. In that
instant we were grateful for something to do. Once we undid the snap his pants came off easily.
It was his shirt that was difficult, his little striped shirt made from all natural cotton. I scratched
his face trying to get it off but he didn’t cry out. He was drawing quick gasps through his nose,
taking in bits of air that never seemed to be enough, and his face was turning pale blue. The sides
of his mouth moved as if reciting something in a language we would never know.
Now he had only his underwear on, little form-fitting things with safari animals faded
from the wash. I looked at Jackson and he looked at me and nodded. I felt a momentary thrill,
like Jackson had finally accepted me as an equal. I pulled the underwear down Miles’ legs, his
skin smooth and cold. Now we could see his little penis rag-dolling around with every seizing.
Being an only child I had never seen one before, though once I had walked in on my
father in the bathroom and saw just a tiny glimpse as he put it away.
“We should get our parents,” I said. “They’ll know what to do.”
“Are you retarded?” Jackson started for the basement steps. “I’m going to lock the door.”
“Don’t!” Drew got up, too. His eyes were glossy with fear. “Don’t lock it. Don’t lock it,
and don’t tell them. Either way it looks bad.”
I was trying to stop myself from crying but it wasn’t working. For once, I didn’t know
what my father would think of me when he heard what we had done. The thought that I might no
longer please him filled me with bottomless panic.

16

Saara had been googling. “Here they say just to wait it out.” She frowned and scrolled
some more, clicking a couple other tabs open. “On this site they say to hold his tongue. On this
other site they say to never put anything in his mouth.”
Miles’ neck muscles were dancing like there were maggots below the skin. Saara closed
down the epilepsy tabs and the Abu Ghraib pictures came up behind them. Our model for Miles
was still posing on screen: the brown-skinned man who looked like Jesus in a hood. Now Saara
started crying, too.
“What the hell is wrong with you two?” Jackson said.
“We shouldn’t have done this.” Saara’s voice sounded squeezed. “He could die.”
“He’s not going to die,” Drew said. But I had thought it, too. Miles was having an even
harder time breathing now, the blue tone to his face deepening, the veins in his neck so full I was
afraid they would burst.
“Then do something,” Saara said, looking to Jackson like this was all his fault, which it
might have been—I was too scared to remember if any of the fault was mine. Just then Miles
began to moan and roll his eyes back in his head like the girl in the Exorcist, a movie we’d
watched in snippets online once we’d learned we were too young for it.
“Shut up!” Jackson put his hand over Miles’ mouth, his knuckles quivering with Miles’
spasms.
“Careful,” Saara said. “Let him breathe!”
Instead Jackson put his whole body on top of Miles. He kept his hand on Miles’ mouth
and Miles gasped through the spaces between Jackson’s fingers, chest heaving. Jackson’s eyes
fogged over and he pressed himself down harder with fierceness I’d never seen before, from

17

anyone. He spoke so softly at first it took me a moment to tell whether he was even speaking at
all.
“Stop shaking. Stop shaking. Stop it, stop it.” Jackson’s teeth were clenched, his knees
were on Miles’ belly, and each time he said “stop” he pushed his hand down on Miles’ mouth
like he was trying to Heimlich something out through Miles’ abdomen. “Stop it, stop it, stop it,”
he repeated, again and again, so that I forgot what the words meant, where we were, what we
might have done except stare.
Jackson was sweaty now, the muscles under his T-shirt working. He kept pushing.
Eventually Miles was still. I screamed. I want to think it was for Miles’ sake, but I know
better. I’d seen something in Jackson’s eyes. It was like I’d been pulled against my father on a
winter day, wrapped snug in his coat smelling of cloves and warm wool, only to discover the
lining was torn, cold wind was coming through and I was no longer safe.

Ten minutes later the ambulance arrived. Miles was alive. He had actually stopped breathing, but
his dad had done CPR to start him up again. Miles’ mother was crying. All the mothers were
crying. The fathers were muttering things to each other. We stood outside, watching Miles being
loaded onto the stretcher. My father had his arm around me. The woman with Twizzler hair was
next to us. Or maybe it was more the color of the lampshade with the bulb inside glowing
through the living room window which was open because it was spring, and no one had bothered
to turn off the blues playing on the stereo so Bessie Smith mixed with the sound of sirens and the
lamp glow and the ambulance’s flashing lights.
“Nora,” my father whispered, his beard scruff against my scalp. “What were you all
doing?”

18

Instead of answering I burrowed into his chest.
“No more current events,” he said, and I thought it was just to me but it must have been
louder because the woman with Twizzler hair said, “She can handle it. She’s twelve years old.”
“Eleven,” I said, but it was like she hadn’t heard. She was the only woman who wasn’t
crying. I pulled away from under my father’s arm to look her square in the face. For the first time
it occurred to me that her hair color might not be natural.
“You’re a slut,” I told her. “I hate you.”
I didn’t wait to see her reaction. I needed to be away from all of them. I half-walked halfran back inside the house, ignoring my father calling my name with a voice I hadn’t ever heard
him use before, a type of voice like he didn’t know me. Well, I thought: he doesn’t.
I stood in the kitchen, my only company the dirty dishes piled next to the sink. Half the
tiramisu was still in the pan. It was cross-sectioned into spongy layers, like a model of the earth’s
crust we’d seen in class.
I had an idea.
I put a finger into the pan. It came out covered with pillowy chocolate foam. I licked it
clean. I put my whole hand in. The tiramisu felt like the inside of a jellyfish. I had never felt the
inside of a jellyfish but that didn’t matter because I knew it was true. I licked my palm and finger
pads and the webbed spaces in between. It was the best thing I had ever tasted. I could taste the
cinnamon and cocoa but also the alcohol, strong and sharp. It was obvious why we hadn’t been
allowed it.
I finished the whole pan by myself. Even after I was home with my teeth brushed and the
covers up to my ears, I could taste a little of the tiramisu over the toothpaste. That night I dreamt
of jellyfish and wine.

19


