Saturday night, after Joah stopped whipping me, he dropped his razor strop on
my back and walked away. I was tied down with no view at all, but I could hear
all right, heard him pour a drink. Rum, I reckoned, on account we kept a barrel of
it right there in the kitchen. I wished it was for me, I was the one need of it, but by
then I knew better.
Next I heard him settle in his wing chair right near where my feet were
tied, swilling rum and breathing hard, like whipping me took a toll on him. I never
in my life known him so out of sorts. I couldn’t tell if he was resting up to hit me
some more or if he was finally finished.
I hurt so bad. Head pounding, eyes burning, belly tight like a rock.
Something drooled out my mouth, but I couldn’t pull away from it. Plus I was too
tired to move, more tired than I ever been. In my whole life, I never got whipped
before.
I could’ve begged him to let me up. All I had to do was promise never to
sneak out again. But I wasn’t about to make that promise, not in this life. Nothing,
not even Joah’s razor strop, going to keep me from Milla, I thought then.
Plus, I never sneaked out. I just did what I always did, and there wasn’t a
damn thing wrong with it for Joah to get so tore up about. Weren’t no crime to
visit Milla. He just upped and changed the rules for no seeable reason.
I was shivering, but my backside burned like he laid hot coals on it. The
pain soaked down deep into me till I was all played out, like a jellyfish washed up
on the beach.

1

Together Our Whole Life
Jellyfish got me to thinking about the beach—the one over toward
Gulfport, where me and Joah used to go in summer. Remembrance of them
outings took me off that cursed table for a breather. I don’t favor country, but the
shore’s different, all winter I pined for beach days. The suppers Momma packed
us--jerky, pickles, green tomatoes, rye bread dripping with goose-fat--I could near
taste them. And feel the sand tickling between my toes. Me and Joah dunking
each other, water so cold it sucked your breath out. Hiding from sun showers
under a tree. You maybe won’t like this, but when we came on a stranded
jellyfish, we piled up sand on it till it was buried out of sight, else took a stick and
flicked it back in the water.
In my head I was thinking Joah, we been together our whole life. Those
years should matter. Is washed-up jellyfish all that’s left?
I tried to stay at the beach, calm, breathing deep from my belly like Joah
showed me. But then my arms cramped up. I got scared, lost my breath
altogether, shook all over. I tried to pull out them straps, but I couldn’t move. I
never got tied down before and needed to get free. I said please Master Joah,
please let me up. Let me help you to bed and forget all about this.
But all he said was shut up. Shut up, Jacob, unless you want more.
Then he got up and poured himself more rum, put out the fire, took the
Betsy lamp, and left me tied there in the cold and dark.

Sunday morning something pressing on my shoulder startled me awake.

2

Together Our Whole Life
I figured it was Joah, so I didn’t cry out in pain; back then, I still had some
pride in me. “A little pride keeps you alive,” Momma always said. “Too much
can kill you.”
A voice came at me all hushed and worshipful, like at a funeral: “The Jew
did some work on you, boy.”
That sure weren’t Joah.
With no warning what felt like a finger drilled down on my back, paining
me like a hornet. I twisted and squirmed to see who’s jabbing me, but tied as I
was, I could see no more than I could last night. About all’s I did see was a slice
in the tabletop, a white gash snaking across the dark wood finish. With Joah so
finicky about his possessions, I hoped I could cover it over with boot blacking or
something. Fixing my own rump, I supposed, would be more troublesome.
Another jab. Some stranger poking at me and not a blessed thing I could
do about it. I near cried out for Joah, but stopped myself; no way I’d give him the
satisfaction. Nothing ever in all my twenty-three years prepared me for this. Past
the tabletop, dust motes drifted down in the sunlight, slow, like when the snow up
North first starts falling. I thought maybe it’s a bad dream, but the way the sun
sliced in, I allowed I was awake all right, and slept well into morning. Milla’d
already be off to church--unless she stayed back for once, to learn what happened
to me. I hoped she was waiting for me, that’d please me.
Another poke. I needed to get free and feel my backside myself, see in the
mirror what damage Joah’d done. “You think there’ll be scars?” I asked the voice.

3

Together Our Whole Life
In my whole life I’d got but one scar on me, on my shin, from falling like a fool in
Rickwood Cave, and I didn’t fancy another.
“Nope. No scars,” the voice said. It came at me deep, with authority, but
dreary, like ages ago it gave up caring. “Skin ain’t broke,” it droned. Sounded
like an old rabbi, maybe the same one from Joah’s grandma’s funeral, but that
made no sense, some rabbi in here poking me.
Whoever it was bore down again, off toward the side where it hurt worst,
and I couldn’t help but squeal. Came out loud and high like some pig or little kid,
no way for a grown man to sound. But the stranger paid me no heed, kept poking
away. “If you was any darker, these welts’d scar up like rope,” he said. “But
month out, these’ll be plumb gone.”
“You seem to know a lot about it,” I said, armpits soaked, shivers and
gooseflesh all up my backside. “Scars and welts and such.”
“It’s my line of work.”
“What line of work might that be?”
“Patroller, boy. Patrolman Grimm. Sir to you.”
I never trafficked much with coppers--they wouldn’t dare pester Joah
Mannheim’s people--so I reckoned this must be the same one from last night that
helped Joah drag me out of Milla’s and tie me down here. But that one never
spoke a word, so I couldn’t say for sure.
I heard him plop himself down on Joah’s wing chair--after last night, I
knew that sound better than I cared to--so I took stock of myself. Neck moved all
right, and I could roll my shoulders and flex my butt, and thighs, calves, and

4

Together Our Whole Life
wiggle my toes; I figured I weren’t wounded bad. I needed to get out of there
quick, get back to Milla; after all the ruckus, she’d be plenty worried. Seems I
spend my whole life trying to keep women from fretting about me--first Momma,
now Milla, too. I said, “Please, Sir, could you let me up now?”
“Not yet,” he grunted. He slapped something--his belly, I guessed, from
the deep sound of it. “Be some time before I need to loose you.”
He had plans for me? By what right? Weren’t fitting for a stranger to
know more about what’s in store for you than you know yourself, and Sunday my
day off, too. Joah never took away my Sunday before. Milla’d be beside her
wits, and if I didn’t show up in time for Sunday dinner, Momma would be, too. I
had to get up off that table.
For years I watched Joah boodle coppers, and I made Grimm an offer: “I
give you two dollars, Sir, you let me up now.” I was willing to go higher.
He kind of hesitated. “Hmm…Two dollars a lot of money…” he muttered,
“…from the likes of you.” Said it like I’m scum. Went silent for a bit, and then he
said, “I don’t see no money on you.”
I told him my money’s in the bedroom--Master Joah’s sleeping room.
“Oh.” Clacked his tongue, said too bad, I can’t go in there.
Says who? Why not? And me so cocksure a bribe would work. Best try
something else. “I got to use the necessary, Sir.”
“Don’t lie to me, boy,” he snapped. “Way you been beat, anything in you
come out already.”

5

Together Our Whole Life
“Oh.” I hadn’t meant to turn him ornery. Crazy, some stranger thinking he
knows more about my innards than me. “You must be right, Sir,” I said. “You
sure know a lot about these things.”
“It’s my line of work,” he said again, like he was right proud of it. Kept
patting his belly, too, like he was proud of that as well. “Now shut up and leave
me be.”
“Yes, Sir.” I counted to five, took a breath, and added, “Master Joah’d be
upset fierce if there was an accident in his kitchen.”
“Jesus Lord, all right already,” he growled. He untied my wrists. “Lay
steady till I tell you sit up.” Freed my ankles. “Now rise up slow.”
I righted myself and sat up facing him, trying not to grin over besting him
like that. Dizzy as I was, I saw right clear it was the same copper from last night.
Big-bellied as a rich man--and worn, his eyes glazed over like death come on him
early. Scary, those eyes; made me fearful to ask where Joah was.
He helped me down off the table and held me steady while I took my first
wobbly steps, but his breath and body odor didn’t sit well; I backed away. “I’ll be
OK now, Sir. Thank you.”
He loosened his hold, but when I started to untie the straps, he smacked
my wrist with no more care than swatting a fly. “Leave them be,” he told me.
“We’ll need them soon enough.”
What in tarnation for? And what gives him the right to hit me? Made me
mad, but I didn’t say anything, just left out the kitchen. The tethers bounced
against me, irritating, like a fool costume Joah’d have me wear to Vixen--the kind

6

Together Our Whole Life
of night I’d sooner set behind me, thank you, least while Milla’s on my mind. On
my way to the chamber, I planned to find Joah, get things settled, and rid myself
of Grimm.
The copper trailed me to the sitting room, but froze at the threshold like
he saw a gate there. Likely cause that room’s so elegant--leastwise in Joah’s
estimation. Empire-style he calls it, most everything black and gold. Hard to keep
clean, I call it.
As I headed toward the chamber, I peeped into Joah’s bedroom. But I
didn’t find Joah in there, just my bed all smashed up in the corner. When I got
back to the sitting room, more troubled than relieved, Grimm nodded up at the
chandelier. It’s this huge thing, Federal-style Joah says, three whole tiers of
crystal prisms long as your fingers. Burns whale oil, came all the way from
Europe, cost a lot. ”How long’s it take to light that thing?” he asked.
I couldn’t believe Joah put some lowlife lamplighter in charge of me. “Just
a minute or two, Sir.”
He pointed at Joah’s chaises longues. Two of them, ebony frames all
shiny, covered in the same black damask as the drapes, only the drapes have gold
fringe where they swag.
“You ever sit on them?”
“No, Sir,” I lied. Made me recollect the first time I did sit on them.
Happened last spring, bit after I met Milla. Joah lurched home one night more
soused than usual, collapsed on a chaise, and ordered up oysters and brandy.

7

Together Our Whole Life
When I brought them out, he told me sit on the other chaise and have some
oysters. At first, I wiggled in my seat.
“Read to me,” he said. I always sat cross-legged on the floor when I read
to him, but that night I settled in on the chaise, eased up, and read him the day’s
gossip. He fidgeted, then jumped up and played waltzes on the harpsichord while
I just lolled back, stretched out like a white man, shucking oysters and drinking
brandy. It was strange. Now this? Made no sense.
“Never seen any place like this,” Grimm said. “A Jew palace.” He sized
me up like he had Joah’s furniture, probably wondering how much I cost. “You a
Jew?” he asked.
Made me laugh. “No, Sir.”
He muttered something and turned back into the kitchen. “What’s that?”
he asked, pointing to a glass thing by the stove, shape of a figure eight.
He was full of questions, like a little kid. “Makes coffee, Sir,” I explained.
We carried it here all the way from Princeton; Joah said it made the best coffee.
“Humph. No cowboy pot, that,” the copper said. “A Jew pot.” He
sniggered at his own joke and poured the cold coffee into a mug. “Here, drink
this.”
I brewed it--strong Arabica coffee, no less--Friday morning, and I couldn’t
fathom swallowing those greasy dregs. “Got to heat the whole stove for that, Sir.”
“No time, boy. Drink it cold.”
What’s the rush?

8

Together Our Whole Life
He unwrapped a hunk of rye from brown paper and tossed it to me. “Eat
this. You’ll need nourishment.”
I wrapped that bread Thursday when it was already stale, for Milla and me
to feed the birds in Congo Park today. I wouldn’t offer it to a beggar. “Please,
Sir,” I pleaded. “I’d rather go hungry.”
“You never been hungry in your whole damn life,” he griped.
“That’s true, Sir,” I said. But I reckoned this’d be a ripe time to try.
I just stood there till he stormed over and thumped my chest. “Eat up like I
told you, damn it.” Another thump. They hurt. “And shut up.” He plopped back
down in Joah’s chair.
No one but Joah had the right to hit me like that--but what was I supposed
to do? My face blushed hot, like when I was a sick little boy and Momma made
me swill down castor oil. Used to be I’d fuss about it till she got all worked up
and acting funny; then I’d go ahead and down the stuff. A little mischief keeps
you alive, I decided early on; too much, I don’t know, can’t say I ever tried it.
But weren’t like I’d fuss at Grimm, so I forced down his muddy coffee
and gnawed his stale bread. When I finished, he lobbed a paper sack at me from
off the floor. “Put these on,” he said.
“No, please, Sir. I’ll wear my own clothes,” I told him. But my clothes
from last night weren’t nowhere in sight.
Grimm said, “Put on what I give you, boy, and shut up already.”
I dumped out the bag on the floor. The drawers and stockings were
missing. Besides, nobody but Joah ever told me what to wear. Where was Joah,

9

Together Our Whole Life
anyhow? This foolishness had to stop. “I can’t wear these, Sir. Please. Master
Joah be shamed for me to be seen in these clothes.”
“Put them on, boy. And Jesus sakes, button your goddam mouth ’fore I
smack it shut.”
I stood still, figured let him hit me again, I don’t care. I got my pride. I
drunk his nasty coffee and ate his moldy bread and what good did that do me? But
I wanted to get a move on, get to Milla’s already, so I put on his clothes, and they
felt all wrong. Clothes are supposed to feel good and make you proud; leastways
that’s how it always been. But Grimm’s homespun blouse hung loose on me like a
laughingstock and chafed my back--like it weren’t already sore enough. His
trowsers stopped short on my shins, leaving my scar exposed for all the world to
set eyes on. And his brogans fit no better, all floppy and rubbing against my feet. I
felt like a fool for it, but I was terrified somebody who knows me might see me
got up this way.

Joah never told me he was selling me.
Before we quit the kitchen, Grimm tied my hands tight behind my back
and attached my ankles loose enough so I could just barely get down the stairs
and shuffle out to Royal Street. Once we got outside, he never said another
word to me.
Joah, done up in his grey and yellow striped suit and stovepipe hat, was
out there leaning on his silver-handled walking stick, waiting for us I supposed,
but with his back turned away. When we came out, he didn’t say a word, just

10

Together Our Whole Life
walked fast; Grimm pushed me to keep up. I wanted to reason with Joah, ask
what’s going on, how can I make it right between us? But I took my cue from
him and hobbled along without talking.
It looked to me like the whole population of New Orleans had turned out
for their Sunday amusement, and now I was part of the show. I stumbled past
nabobs without a care in the world up on their balconies, looking down their
noses at us folk below, finger-feeding their parrots they had chained to perches.
We passed grandees riding in fancy broughams and phaetons while their horses
plopped manure for us to slip on. White men in top hats out on parade, towing
their wives in huge sun hats and their children in caps and bonnets, like
headgear’s going to protect them from the miasma. Fine-looking mulatto
women, young and freed, their slaves--dark-skin, big-muscle, mean-looking
men--balancing pastel parasols over their misssus’ bare heads. Families of
Irishmen, Germans and freedmen decked out in sad, factory-made church
clothes, trying to look respectable. Slaves on their day off dressed best as they
could, pretending they’re free. White couples up in the cafes for early Sunday
supper. Street vendors hawking newspapers, pastries, flowers, puppies, tonics,
elixirs and balms. Pigs still out from last night, yapping their mouths and
running free till their owners come get them, freer than me. I’d been here
hundreds of Sundays before, but never like this.
They all paid me no heed, like it’s an everyday occurrence, a man in
rags tied up and herded across town. The sun, bright and cheery for November,
taunted me: Fine day to take Milla to Congo Park, feed the birds. Grimm

11

Together Our Whole Life
pushed on my welts so’s I had to hustle fast, ankles turning raw, the brogans
slipping in muck over wet macadam with a loud sucking sound or banging over
dry paving stones like castanets, calling attention to my predicament. I was
afraid Joah was leading me to jail for another whipping, but I trusted he
wouldn’t do that. Or would he? After last night, I couldn’t say. But when he
veered toward the river, I figured it isn’t jail, and felt some relief.
He turned right on Decatur Street. Across the road, on the river side,
greenhorn white boys, barefoot and raggedy, made a ruckus throwing stones and
rubbish at each other. Scraggly black folk lined up for Sunday market, crude,
hand-lettered signs hanging round their necks: “Sunday Hire,” “For Rent,” “For
Sale.” I always felt sorry for them.
A ways past the market, Joah stopped outside a storefront across from
the Decatur Café and went in alone. Grimm held me outside under a green
awning. The store’s windows were glazed instead of shuttered and curtained at
the bottom like a café; I would’ve peeked in to see what Joah was up to, but
Grimm kept me facing out to the street. So I watched white folks eat their
suppers in the restaurant. Joah would never stoop to eat in that place, but I
wished I could. My stomach was growling, I needed a proper breakfast. Not
likely, so I braced myself for more punishment; at the time punishment was still
foreign to me and I couldn’t fathom what sort I had coming.
After a time the door swung open and Grimm shoved me inside, up
against a rack of guns that took up a whole wall, more guns than I ever seen in
one place before. I recognized some from dusting the stock at the gallery: old-

12

Together Our Whole Life
fashioned flintlocks and muskets; newfangled Brunswicks and Enflields with
long, shiny bayonets; shotguns and repeaters; fancy old short arms; and the
latest Colt revolvers. I didn’t suppose Joah was going to have me shot, but all
those guns made me feel small.
The room was cool, like its walls were thick; and clean, and free of dust
or any odor, like not much life went on in there. Called to mind the vault where
I brought the Mannheims’ cash in the afternoon, or the wine cellar behind their
house on Canal Street where I used to sneak in girls. Sneak? No, Joah’s father’s
plenty sharp, he knew damn well what went on back there. I wished Master
Mannheim would show up then; he’d see that this punishment didn’t get out of
hand.
Joah’d stationed himself on a Captain’s chair with his back to me, across
a big leather-topped desk from a fat old white man also wearing a top hat.
Words I couldn’t make out passed between them, papers I couldn’t read shoved
back and forth for signing, all about me I supposed, and then the fat man leaned
back in his chair and lit up a pipe. A meerschaum pipe, bowl the size of my fist.
A blast of sulfur, and then the cloying stink of rum-soaked tobacco till it was all
you could breathe.
“Bring him hither,” the old man said.
Grimm untied me and pushed me forward to where I could see the man’s
mean little eyes. Underneath them, bags of loose wrinkles sagged down, spotted
with black dots like someone’d ground peppercorns on them. Them spots stood
out sore, his face being white and shiny like a fish belly. Coils of chins, no neck

13

Together Our Whole Life
to be seen--a fat rich man. Must be some kind of judge, I reckoned. I was fixing
to defend myself, argue that visiting Milla weren’t no crime, when Grimm
whispered to me, “Do off them clothes.”
My blood froze. I hadn’t undressed before a white man since nipper
days. I thought white men don’t take to seeing black men naked; Joah never did,
leastwise till last night. Even then, his nose was pressed up against the window
like he couldn’t be troubled to watch. What kind of judge wants me naked? No
one in my whole life ever treated me like this. I clung to the same homespun
that minutes ago shamed me and weighed up my chances of breaking out of
there. Not good. Not good at all. Grimm tugged down on the trowsers like he
was in a hurry to get them back, so I tore off his damn blouse myself and kicked
off the nasty brogans, good riddance. Grimm kept a grip on my arms while the
old man just sat there, puffed his pipe, and stared at me like Grimm did before,
sizing me up like furniture.
The geezer didn’t say anything, just pushed himself up out his chair,
wheezing and coughing from the effort of it. His hips were wider and splayed
out further back of him than any man’s ought to be, like two bodies pieced
together, or a man and a horse--like a creature from those Greek stories me and
Joah read in Princeton. He tottered around his desk smoking like a dragon,
haunches wobbling behind him, and I near laughed from the ridiculousness of it.
I couldn’t fathom what punishment this character might deliver on me.
“Let’s see what we got,” he rasped. Grimm squeezed my arms down to
the bones, and the old man pried my lips apart. He shoved his hairy, yellowed

14

Together Our Whole Life
fingers into my mouth, pushing back and forth over my teeth and gums, pulling
on my tongue. I near choked and twisted away to see if Joah was watching this.
But then the hands moved down over my chest and belly to places no man’s
hands ever been or ought to be, and Grimm’s grip was all that kept me from
punching the man. I was mistaken; there was nothing funny here.
“Diseases?” he asked Joah.
Why would he care? He got no right. But the way they all acted, like it’s
normal as daybreak for a stranger to grope me like this, I weren’t so sure.
Face still stuck out the window, Joah sneered, “I’ve hardly checked.”
“He sired pups?”
.

None of his goddam business.
“I’m sorry, no,” Joah muttered. “None I know of.”
Sorry? Why’s he sorry?
The old man waddled round behind me and Grimm scooted round front

without relaxing his hold. The man pinched my back everywhere Joah’d
whipped me till I couldn’t help myself, I danced up and down and yelped in
pain. He whistled and told Joah, “We best warehouse him till these welts heal
up.”
Joah said, “No, it’s got to happen fast.”
It was my first inkling that Joah was selling me. But no, that can’t be.
All I did was go see Milla. This was way worse than jail, worse than another
whipping. I thought, You can’t sell me, Joah. We been together our whole life.

15

Together Our Whole Life
The man said, “Welts’ll cost you. They make buyers nervous.”
Buyers? He’s selling me? No, Joah, please!
“How nervous?” Joah asked, calm as could be.
The man breathed deep and puffed up a cloud. “Lower the price on
him… humph… much as ten percent.”
Joah said, “Fine, are we finished then?” and moved toward the door.
Grimm let go of me. I started to call out, Master Joah, please don’t leave me
here with nothing. Some clothes at least? But I reckoned he wouldn’t listen, so
why give him the satisfaction? The old man dragged me toward a back door,
while Joah and Grimm disappeared out the front.
He never said a word. No explanation, no goodbye, nothing. After we
been together our whole life.

16


