In deep space, where light is far and darkness rains, a ball of hatred and iron rockets
through the universe. This ball of malice hates everything in its path. It hates the gravity that
forces it to move and hates the planets and asteroids that get in its way. It hates the children that
form from the destroyed planets. It hates the remains that follow it around. It hates black holes
and suns. It hates that it can’t destroy them. But the thing it hates the most, is life. It’s seen life
only a few times and its rage at seeing it knows no bounds. Every time it sees life it must destroy
it usually with one of its children. It is the destroyer and it hates that.
After a few thousands light years it goes past a black hole that wasn’t there before. The
black hole tried to eat it but its rage was too much for the black hole to swallow. The ball of
hatred did lose some of its children and it hated that, but one thing the black hole did do was
change the path it had been on for millions of years and it flung it to a galaxy it had been to twice
before. It hated this galaxy the most for it always seemed to have life in it. One planet in
particular always had life on it. The third planet from the star it circles. Last time it was here it
had destroyed the big life scaly things on it. As it got closer it noticed that that horrible life
making planet had done it once more! But this time the planet will never be able to make life
again. For instead of sending a child to destroy it, thanks to the black hole it will destroy it itself.
The broken planet will become nothing more than one of its hated children following it. It will
destroy everything. So into its plan it did not notice the metal contraption it passed, not that it
would know what it was even if it did
On the life making planet the life forms saw the meteorite coming straight toward them
and they started to plan. Making use of the internet and computer simulations, all the countries
finally working together. Ships were built to send a few to make a life in the deep of space to

Deep Space Meteorite

find another planet to call home. The greatest minds were hard at work trying to save this planet.
Three weeks before impact they found the way.
When the ball of iron came seeking the destruction it wants to impose, it was hit with
something and its course was changed and it was headed for the sun. It’s one dream to try to
destroy a star came true. It lost and its reign of destruction was finally at an end. The life forms
that destroyed the destroyer celebrated and a new age of space flight took off. An age to find
other life, for unlike the ball of hatred, life liked other life.


