Its name is Cantareus aspersus and two of its species are crawling towards each other along
the bricks. You probably know it better as the brown garden snail which eats your cabbages.
It’s an introduced species, though I don’t know this until later, just like I don’t know yet that
my future son-in-law isn’t going to run off in terror and divorce my daughter in a month’s
time.
I am in my sister Beth’s lush garden. It’s 12pm, two hours before Marnie marries Rob – the
man who, to complicate an already emotionally layered day, I happened to have a steamy
dream about last night. I blush and my toes squelch whenever I think about it – and I don’t
wish to think too long about why my subconscious chose that particular person to dream
about in this way. I would smack it if I could reach it.
I am hiding around the corner, in the little fenced-off part of Beth’s garden, because I’ve
started smoking again and it’s not becoming for the mother of the bride to have a fag hanging
from her mouth. Jenny’s small lattice steelwork table is a cute French cafe caricature. Next
to me is a low brick double sided wall that houses a garden bed and a lovely clippered
pittosporum. It shields me from Marnie and her make-up artist and the caterers, who bustle
inside the shed preparing delicious, expensive food they will later feed to us in the marquee.
The snails continue their approach along the wall. My mind has been racing all morning and
it seems almost incongruous that the pace of my thoughts can exist in the same world as these
funny, slimy little creatures. I breathe smoke in deeply and peer in closer to inspect this
slow-motion stage set. What are they doing? Will they fight once they finally reach each
other – at 3pm, at the rate they’re going? Their speed is almost imperceptible. As I watch

1

Snails and Veils

them, I find myself relaxing into their world and mine slows right, right down. Just for a
minute or two.
I can tell where Marnie is without needing to use a GPS. I just follow her voice and the
bubbling champagne of her excitement. She is inside now, screaming loudly with her
bridesmaids as they have their hair done.
Snails are hermaphrodites, which would be quite nice if you think about it. Not so much the
having sex with yourself part because I’m quite capable of that already. But more the
changing sex part. I’ve always wanted to know what it’s like to have a penis, how it would
feel to have this sticky-outy thing that thrusts into squishy places. Wouldn’t it be great, when
you’re tired of being a woman, to switch?
My cigarette reaches its end and I light another, guiltily, because Marnie is calling my name
in a long-dragged out fashion that suggests that it’s not the first time she’s called me. It
would be great to switch from being a woman to a man, although when I think about it
further, if you’re an hermaphrodite you don’t really switch from one gender to the other –
you’re already both. Still, imagine how much smaller the gap between the sexes must be
when there isn’t one at all.
I have a theory that there once existed a third gender. Let’s call them mooman. This third
gender, mooman, was one both men and women were attracted to and comingled with. But
this poor third gender, stuck as it was in-between men and women, was wiped out entirely in
the 9th century BC by countless murders and intrigues from either side. It makes sense, you
know it does.

2

Snails and Veils

I have no idea how long I’ve been watching but the snails, by my estimations, have moved
about two centimetres towards each other when Marnie’s call develops a top note of
insistence I’m simply unable to ignore.
Isn’t this funny? All those years when I used to call for Marnie with no reply and then, after
the eleventy-fourth time I’d go outside to find her immersed, sitting with her legs
outstretched in front of her, making dirt castles on the grass with her beach bucket and spade
and soil from her dad’s flower pots.
Marnie’s dad. Alistair. That is another thought I am going to try my hardest to fence off in
my mind today because it quite simply hurts too much that he is not there. This is
compounded by the fact that if he was, it would be worse. I will go inside, attend to my
daughter so she can marry her almost-husband and live happily and contentedly, despite the
hot slash of fear that threatens to rise up to the centre of my chest from its home in my
stomach.
The next several hours are a whirlwind. When I see my child in her dress I cry, even with the
veil. “A veil?” I’d almost roared in disbelief when I first helped her choose her outfit months
before.
“Yes, Mum,” she’d said, my up-till-now firmly feminist daughter. “It’s beautiful,” she’d said
resolutely. “It’s mysterious,” she added, defying me with her glaring eye to disagree. “It
signifies the time between and the time after Rob kisses me for the first time to seal our
union.”
Oh, geez. Really? I wouldn’t have thought the history of veils should have held up at all
under the gaze of a feminist even if its fabric was calico. Marnie’s romanticism however has
seemingly overridden the political history of those bits of lace. Despite that, history still

3

Snails and Veils

records through a filmy Vaseline lens that veils were sometimes used to hide an almost-wife
from a man she’d never even seen before, and probably didn't even want to marry. Or it was
used to shield her from evil spirits, or to symbolise a move from virginity to permissible
sexuality. Marnie and Rob have been shagging for years. I even caught them once. But
there, that is another thought to shy away from.
The veil is beautiful though, a filmy gauze that makes my daughter look elysian.
Marnie is called into the lounge room where the photographer wishes to take some shots and
I am called outside by the damnable lure of nicotine.
It is astounding to believe, but the snails have actually reached each other and ... what? This
is just too weird. The snails look like they’re, well, smooching. The two snails are caressing
each other with their tentacles and doing what seems to be kissing. It is slowly sensuous and
apart from the fact that it’s revolting, at the same time it’s almost kind of ... lovely. Ardent
gastropod foreplay – I feel almost embarrassed to be observing such an intimate act, out in
the middle of the day.
I return inside to another throwback to 1837 – Marnie has decided she must hide in the house
before Rob arrives. He mustn’t see her before she makes her grand entrance. Not simply
because she wants to heighten the drama of her entrance, but because it will be, in her words,
“Bad luck” if he does. My daughter has put on her sheathy dress and it has apparently sucked
her clean inside the chiffon guts of some bizarre archetype of the patriarchy.
Do I sound a bit old and cynical? I don’t mean to at all. It’s not that I don’t want Marnie to
celebrate her wedding day with the use of rituals. They are like fun games for grown-ups,
and I think that not only are they very important, but that we should have more of them. The

4

Snails and Veils

problem is that the ones she has to work with are stupid and flimsy and meaningless. There
is nothing solid behind them except steel tradition.
But still, for all that, it does feel exciting when Marnie hides away inside from Rob when he
arrives. She squeals when she sees him through the net curtain of the dining room window
(doubly veiled, just to make extra sure). I go outside, greet the guests who’ve arrived, answer
some last-minute questions from the caterers and approach Rob. I am nervous. Rob is lovely
but I do hope he can breathe inside a marriage. He grins, high fives me, pulls me into a bear
hug that threatens to remind me of last night’s dream. Luckily everyone is getting into
position and Marnie is about to appear.
Those snails really did appear to be kissing, you know. I’m not exaggerating this. Look it up
on the internet. You may well find an impeccably filmed scene of a couple of snails which
shows the whole mating ritual, with operatic background music to boot.
I move to my seat. The music starts and my beautiful daughter comes out the back door and
proceeds down the long grassy walk to her future husband. She is beaming at Rob and we
are all beaming at them. My beautiful girl. All this collective beaming of love and hope,
surely it streams into them both like spring sun.
The lovely service ends. We drink a pre-toast toast before the wedding party goes off to the
city and several other locations to have many expensive photos taken. After they go, I
quickly check in. The snails are entwined, each standing up on their own ... foot. They’re so
close it’s hard to tell where one ends and the other begins. As I look, a mini horror movie
ensues. A tiny little arrow-shaped bit comes out of one snail and shoots into the other.
Surely I must audibly gasp. Has this sort of insanity been going on, all the days I have been
on the earth, and I have never noticed before?

5

Snails and Veils

It is, I later find out, a sheath of calcium carbonate which carries the sperm. I discover all of
this information while taking surreptitious glances on my phone during the reception. Inbetween dancing, not eating enough, talking to guests, and gazing across the room at my
daughter and her husband, I continue my just-discovered and untimely introduction to snails,
sneaking looks at the internet, trying to work out what it is I’ve just seen.
That sperm sheath is called the “love arrow.” Another phrase to add to the list of creepy
words and phrases that make me cringe, headed up by the word “panties.”
The love arrow’s calcium carbonate is the same material that snails’ shells are made from,
their houses, their security. Also, snails are able to repair their shells if they are broken. It’s
certainly far from the most romantic kind of a metaphor that a mother could give to her
daughter’s marriage. Nevertheless, it’s the one the day gave to me. My own little slimycreepy metaphorical hope for those two, that their recreation, home and security will be made
from the same strong stuff.

6


