I had gone to visit him in prison a few years after what he had done because I knew that no
one else would and no one else knew. All bravado had been beaten and buggered out of
him. Bob’s face and hands were dry and creased like a crumpled up page from the phone
book. The playful bright blue eyes now a milky grey, looking inward, as a guilty man should.
He seemed shorter and much older, all hunched in his chair, just beyond the wire mesh
safety glass. “Your mother OK?” he whispered. “She is.” I answered. “School?” he asked.
“Doing great” I lied. “What about a girlfriend-you have one?” This is more of a demand then
a question. We didn’t so much talk, as exchange facial expressions, slowly shaking our
heads back and forth, with thin-lipped looks of regret and remorse. He told me to get a
haircut.
I walk heavily out of there, hearing all the loud, lonely clanging, and steel crashing echoes,
calling out behind me. Under my arm, I fumble with a large clumsy roll of ridiculous
children’s pencil crayon knock-offs from Picasso’s “Blue Period”. I’ve promised to try and
sell these drawings, and then send the money to his daughters. I got him a wall in a Toronto
Beaches café gallery, where the old tie-dyed guy, loved the story more than he liked the
drawings. But then, lit incense falls to paper, and it all burns up, and down to the ground.
From across the road where we jump from the streetcar, it smells as cozy as coffee
brewing on a campfire. Closer now, it typhoons around us, shrapnel shards of thick choking
smoke, screaming painful sirens, and all the urgent strobing lights. Shadows and shapes,
darting past muffled cries. His drawings are only raven’s feathers of floating ashen black,
the roaring heat sucking them up, in an angry vacuum, spitting into a starless sky. Any
hope of any hope, gone.
She’s wrapped snug all around me like a life-jacket, with her head nestled into my back, a
welcome weight on the shoulders, like giving a kid a piggy-back ride. Anne’s sort of swaying
and rocking us, like a mother would a cranky baby. I couldn’t hear it, but I knew she was
crying too. I could feel the sobbing, broken pulse of it, rattling around inside of me.
One Sunday morning, a few years back, Anne realizes she hasn’t actually seen her mother
in a few days. They’ve spoken on the phone some. The usual mom questions, “Did you eat
breakfast? Did you do your homework?” She comes home from school after band practice
and sees that almost all of her mom’s stuff is gone. Her clothes, photographs, the
watercolours of humming birds she’d painted long ago. A rather battered Lay-Z-Boy chair
that her Dad was almost always sitting in with beer in hand’ was upside down out in the
back yard. It wasn’t long before he stopped coming home too. If he did show, he’d stink of
it, and look and sound like shit. When she tried talking to him at the kitchen table, he’d only
say something like, “C’mon sweetie, please… just screw off.” Her home wasn’t one, so Anne
left too. The police found her shivering and asleep, sandwiched between some damp sheets

of cardboard in the corner of a parking lot. Social Services, a couple of foster homes and
then the girls group home near me.
Picassos In Prison

My buddies and I had taken over a garage in our back alley for a hang-out. We spied
awhile, leaning nonchalantly against fences, feigning conversation, all the while we kept an
eye peeled, and soon determined one to be abandoned. There was a side door densely
grown over with grapy vines. We used this entrance, so we wouldn’t be so easily spotted
coming and going. We’d hang there, and shit-talk our parents, teachers or various jerk-offs
from school. For hours, we’d invent schemes, and pranks of revenge or fun, well beyond the
classic “burning bag of dog shit” on the balcony gag. The Group Home girls welcomed
themselves to share our secret hideaway, all boldly traipsing in one sunny Saturday
afternoon, being sexy and smiley, and asking if it’s OK. We agreed to a one week trial. They
would hang around the work bench near the small grungy window. They would smoke a
lot, and all laugh and talk loudly at the same time, even while putting makeup on. Sometime
I’d watch the girls. Seeing the strong red ellipse drawn so carefully and perfectly around
the dark wet emptiness of their mouths made me both excited, and confused. A couple of
times I heard my name in their conversations, but never knew what it was about.
The next weekend, Anne and I were alone together in the garage for the first time. I was
sitting on an old suitcase when she came in and nodded at me, saying hi. Anne hauled
herself up on to the scarred and paint spattered wooden workbench against the far wall.
Her denim skirt climbed quickly up her thighs. I glimpsed a white triangle in the dark up
there. I had once overheard an older boy saying that this was like “The Bermuda Triangle,
that you’d be lost down there, and never get back” I didn’t get it. She’s older than I am. I
figure Anne is probably twelve or thirteen. Behind her was one of those cork coloured pegboard walls, with all the shiny S-Hooks, scattered about in the hundred dark holes. I
thought it looked like a big dreary “Lite-Brite” for dads. The tools were long gone, but still
you could make out the shapes, the stencil-stains of where they once were, like some gang
of dusty ghosts of things undone. Promises not kept.
She pulled a pack of Players out her bag, popped a fag in her pretty mouth, and lit it up
with her big old Zippo. Anne took a long hard haul off her cigarette, and then exhaled from
between her lips while pulling a parallel stream of smoke sharply up into her nostrils,
looking sophisticated and pretty cool. Her legs were crossed at the ankles swinging slow
beneath the bench, swaying in and out of the dusty light. Pouty, and pushing out smoke
rings, she looked over at me smiling with her spring green eyes asking, “Smoke?” I stood up
and shuffled over to her. She stuffed a cigarette in my mouth, pulled me close, and
whispered in my ear, “You can finger me if you want, five minutes for fifty cents”. Then she
laughed a strange strangled laugh, pushing me away hard. This made no sense to me. All I
knew about “fingering” someone I had learned from old gangster movies.

I did have some money somewhere in my room. Often, I’d bump into Bob late in the
afternoon, out on the street somewhere. It was always an awkward surprise for me when
we met like this. All boozy, he’d reach down and shake my hand, slap me on the back and
Picassos In Prison

give me a crumpled-up dollar bill, while slurring, “Promise you won’t tell your Mother you
saw me, OK?-You promise Davey?” I would tell her about seeing Bob, but not about the
money. I had said to Anne that I’d go and get her the fifty cents, and be back. But I was
scared, and so I was lying. I didn’t go home, and I sure didn’t go and “finger” Anne in the
garage.
Instead, I walked slowly along, scuffing at everything on the sidewalk. Pebbles, twigs or
garbage, I kicked at it all. I wasn’t too sure what to think of Bob. It only made sense that my
mom would get lonely, and she needed friends too. He needed me to like him because he
liked her I guess? Bob had taught me a few card games. I learned a little about Euchre, and a
lot about poker. He knew some tricks too, but I had no interest. Guys that did card tricks
had always made me uncomfortable, or annoyed me, somehow. There seemed something
desperate about them, that I couldn’t trust.
He didn’t live far from us. His place was just out on Woodbine Avenue, only three or four
blocks away. The house was a scruffy little wooden shack. I sometimes wondered why he
wouldn’t paint the place. Fix it up for his family. He lived there with his wife and two girls.
His wife was as pretty as my Mom was. The daughters wore those frilly Barbie Doll dresses.
The one girl was maybe six, and the other probably four. They we’re very cute and quiet.
Almost too well behaved.
Guns drawn, and held up high and close, the police swept silently into the place. A long
stark line of light pierced past the closed curtains and shafted across the living room floor.
She was found splayed face-up on the carpeted floor. The body was lying tight up against,
and with one arm under, a glass and chrome coffee table. The glass and her face were badly
broken. Sparkling shards were jutting in and around her eyes and much of her neck, like
satanic, S&M jewellery. The children were cuddled up asleep against her. Bob was found
passed out upstairs in the empty bath tub. He was snoring and stinking of booze. Bob wore
only his boxers, and held a pencil in his right hand, that lay across his crotch. There was no
note. A skinny kitten stood on his wife’s chest licking the blood from her face.


