One hundred years after the launch of Deep Space, the first manned mission to
venture beyond Pluto, Deep Space returned and landed at Cape Canavral. Scoured bones
were all that remained of the 36 astronauts. The only surviving organisms on board were
a large lizard and an even larger catfish. Immediately a congressional committee was
established.
Unanswered questions became chasms into which professionals in investigatory
fields plummeted. Only an evolutionary psychologist and a forensic anthropologist
emerged with their theories intact. Both were called to present their findings. Before the
congressional panel the evolutionary psychologist suggested that the astronauts had split
into two factions, both led by males. Each group led raids against their rivals in order to
steal females. In this process many males were killed and probably females too, and
traitorous females were most definitely killed. One of the groups fed the dead to the giant
catfish, probably in order to demonstrate their ferocity to the other group. This explained

Beyond Pluto
1

the numerous bones littering the bottom of the catfish tank. And one of the groups,
possibly the same one, loosed the lizard, which ate the meat off the bones of the many
bodies not dumped in the fish tank. Eventually one group defeated the other. But within
the victorious group infighting claimed the lives of those remaining. The evolutionary
psychologist concluded his presentation by confidently thanking the panel and taking his
seat.
The panel invited the forensic anthropologist to present his findings. The forensic
anthropologist assured that panel that, though the total lack of tissue remnants on the
bones presented a grand obstacle, he was able, through persistence and ingenuity, to
retrace the events that had transpired onboard Deep Space. At great length he described
his approach to studying the bones and the tests he subjected them to. He explained to the
panel how he judged the rate of decay using original air samples and thus create a
timeline of events. The bones of all thirteen of the bodies found in the fish tank exhibited
the exact same cause of death. Notches in the ribs over the heart suggested a stab wound
with a metal blade. Rates of decay throughout the ship pointed to the captain, Dr. Samuel
Becker, as the most probable last to die. The bones of the bodies near Captain Becker
showed evidence of a weakened cell structure common to cases of starvation. When the
forensic anthropologist discovered, while studying what he could obtain of the crew’s
original records, that the lizard and catfish were under the ownership of the eccentric Dr.
Becker, everything tied together. The astronauts had not split into two factions. Actually
the astronauts all belonged to one tightly knit group that centered on Captain Becker.
Why else would thirteen of them have allowed themselves to be sacrificed to the catfish
(obviously a very meaningful pet to the captain) without, in every case, significant signs

Beyond Pluto
2

of struggle? And why had those near Captain Becker died of starvation while he had not,
and he died later than them? Why also would the lizard and catfish be alive today? The
astronauts offered up their rations to Captain Becker and his pets. They worshiped the
captain. There was no other explanation. Soberly, the forensic anthropologist thanked the
panel and took his seat before the committee chair could dismiss him. The chair thanked
the specialists in kind and the panel adjourned.
Upon retiring to their offices the five committee members, Milson, Taymoore,
Clarcia, Yungez, and Foxith all met a similar description related to them by their
secretaries. A self-proclaimed clairvoyant in her mid-twenties had dropped by their office
and left a note. Would they care to see it? Each committee member independently
attributed the note to a crazy attracted by the strange circumstances surrounding Deep
Space. No, they would not care to see the note.
That night President Destrehan, who had in recent years developed a fascination
with the occult, dreamt a clairvoyant knew the truth about the demise of the astronauts. In
his dream, though, no matter how he strived to meet her he was thwarted by an irrelevant
excuse offered by Milson, Taymoore, Clarcia, Yungez or Foxith.
Alone in his bed the President awoke so disturbed he called an emergency
meeting. At the meeting he did not return any of the greetings offered by Milson,
Taymoore, Clarcia, Yungez or Foxith. He demanded to know who was hiding
information regarding a clairvoyant who had knowledge of Deep Space.
At first the committee members were baffled. Vehemently Milson, Taymoore,
Clarcia, Yungez and Foxith denied the accusation. Then Foxith silently recalled his
secretary’s account from the previous afternoon, then Clarcia, then Yungez, then

Beyond Pluto
3

Taymoore, then Milson. When Foxith expressed ambiguity on the subject others began to
follow suit. The president ordered them to contact the clairvoyant immediately. The
committee members scattered, ransacked their offices, reconvened, and compared the
notes left by the clairvoyant. All were blank save for the name Laura Hopkins and a
phone number. Foxith was elected to make the call. Over the phone Laura Hopkins
agreed to testify in front of the panel under one condition: the venue must be moved to a
courtroom and the lizard and catfish must be present. The committee reported this to the
president who agreed to the stipulations without hesitation.
The following noon, however, in the packed courtroom, with Foxith presiding and
the rest of the committee members in the jury seats, President Destrehan became
skeptical when Laura Hopkins took the witness stand. The clairvoyant wore her hair in a
crisp ponytail. She wore glasses and a dress so simple she looked as if she were merely
dropping by the courthouse on her way to her college courses. She wore none of the
clunky jewelry or unkempt dresses the President expected of a clairvoyant. From his seat
in the audience he stood, pointed at Laura Hopkins, and told her she was in big trouble.
She pointed right back at him and told him to bring in the accused and stop wasting her
time. The president looked at the bailiffs, and nodded his consent. The bailiffs wheeled in
a large sloshing tank and a wide cage with thick steel bars. The lizard was as wide as a
man and longer than a couch. Flattened under his own weight upon the cage’s steel floor,
he shifted his head grumpily and wagged his tongue to get his bearings. The catfish was
larger than anyone expected. As long as the lizard and weighing several times more, it
hovered in the tank with round mouth rhythmically gasping.

Beyond Pluto
4

From the stand Laura Hopkins announced to all present that the astronauts had
ceased to age once they had passed beyond Pluto. The first to notice this was the captain,
Dr. Becker. Because of his advanced age, the aging process was conspicuous to him day
by day. He used this knowledge to weave a very elaborate lie. He informed the crew that
up until this moment the actual purpose behind their voyage into deep space had
remained a secret known only by him. The reasons he had brought a Komodo Dragon and
Wels Catfish onboard were not arbitrary. Those two animals were representatives of the
gods who could grant the crew enjoyment of the benefits deep space had to offer. So
many humans back on Earth had spent their lives searching for the fountain of youth.
What they did not know was that the fountain of youth was not a fountain but a sea and
that sea was called deep space. Now the crew swam in that sea and if they appeased the
gods they could enjoy a place beside them as immortals. The crew rallied impressively
behind Captain Becker’s campaign to please the gods. The captain had planned to
sacrifice any dissenters, but since there were no dissenters he was forced to sacrifice one
assenter a year. This maintained a harmonious atmosphere on board for thirteen years.
What the captain did not know, however, was that he had brought the lizard and catfish
onboard for reasons that really weren’t arbitrary. What is the one question, Laura
Hopkins inquired of her audience, that everyone has neglected to ask? How have a lizard
and catfish remained at their peak age after a hundred year voyage beyond Pluto and
back? I argue that Dr. Becker was unknowingly professing the truth. The lizard and
catfish were representatives of the gods. The lizard’s whispering tongue and the catfish’s
gasping mouth subconsciously apprised the captain of this and directed his actions. For
this reason I have summoned them here today to try them for the death of the crew and

Beyond Pluto
5

the failure of the mission, and to understand the purpose behind their manipulations. I call
to the stand to testify: the catfish.
With considerable effort a team of bailiffs wheeled the tank near the witness
stand. Laura Hopkins stepped down and began interrogating the witness. Were you
onboard Deep Space? The catfish merely pumped his mouth open and closed. Do you
decline to answer? A settling sloshing prevailed as the only sound originating from the
tank. Do you invoke your right to avoid self-incrimination? The catfish looked at the
clairvoyant and helplessly swallowed great gulps of murky water. Laura Hopkins cleared
her throat and turned to the court. The fish cannot hear me, she said. I am going to have
to enter the tank. From the fish’s current caretaker she gestured for not one breathing
apparatus, but two. Upon the gasps rising from the audience she added, I will need
someone along with me as a witness. Who will volunteer? President Destrehan stood and
proclaimed, we will interrogate this beast together! He strode to the witness stand, shed
his suit coat, and heartily followed the clairvoyant up the ladder that ascended to the lip
of the tank.
Laura Hopkins assessed that the ladder’s end appeared at a much greater height
than she had originally judged. In fact the ladder seemed to disappear into a distance
exactly proportionate to the amount she climbed, as if she were climbing over a curved
surface. The threat of falling hung on her elbows and knees. It’s a ways yet, she
attempted to call down to the President, but the ambient air had been transformed by a
wind that drowned out her voice. She began to fear she would have to rest her legs on the
President’s shoulders as he climbed beneath her. In this wind she did not have the voice
to obtain his permission. She halted and readied, at the risk of both of their lives, to ease

Beyond Pluto
6

her weight onto his shoulders without his knowledge of her intention. She paused and
focused her eyes. Opposite the ladder and her clenching fists lay the rim of the tank.
Below, the president awaited her lead.
She threw one arm then the other over the lip and hauled herself into water that
buoyed her quaking joints and eased the bite of the wind. She fitted the breathing
apparatus around her face and, to make room for the President, paddled farther out into
water that from her vantage seemed to expand toward a distant horizon. The President
donned his breathing apparatus from the rim and attempted unsuccessfully to maintain his
composure while splashing into the water. Laura Hopkins could not bring herself to face
President Destrehan so she dropped below the surface and swam for the depths. For
Destrehan’s unspoken presence behind her she felt safer, but still she chastised herself for
bringing along another on a mission that, on further examination, she should have
executed on her own.
The water began to feel funny as if it were thinning to an ether-like consistency.
She saw something suspended in the darkness and she strived to close in on the shape but
she had lost command over the medium through which she moved. The shape increased
in size and definition. Though she was not moving at a rate that pleased her at least she
was progressing in her intended direction. A full read of the shape’s outline confirmed it
was the catfish, hanging eerily still in a field of blackness interrupted only by pricks of
light like distant stars. She scanned for the President and found him beside her but upside
down in relation to her. The distant points of light increased in number until their
collective glow illuminated the contours of the catfish’s marbled gray skin. The

Beyond Pluto
7

resolution of the fish’s skin against the depth yet between her and the fish forced Laura
Hopkins to accept the monumentally enormous size of the catfish.
Tell us what happened onboard Deep Space, President Destrehan called into the
silence, drifting perpendicularly to Laura Hopkins’ left. Or was she drifting overhead
perpendicular to him? The catfish’s mouth contorted slowly and epically in the darkness,
without producing a sound. The silence magnified Laura Hopkins’ sharp rapid breathing.
In an effort to spin around she flailed her limbs and accidentally struck the President. She
kicked her legs and flapped her arms trying to rejoin him in hope of cutting them both
obliquely free from a current that was apparently ushering them along. Her lack of ability
to register movement had deceived her. They were plunging toward the catfish at a rate
that was suddenly unleashing the true proportions of its gasping mouth. Catfish lips
engulfed her full range of sight. Leaving much of the light of the stars behind they
entered the catfish. Dim ridges broader than any mountain she had ever seen ranged
along the interior of a beast that was proving more cavernous the deeper they penetrated.
At the center of their trajectory a clammy esophagus blossomed open, providing the first
pulse of sound beyond Laura Hopkin’s own halting breath. The esophagus remained open
for a beat before collapsing shut, where it rested for a beat before it unstuck and threw
itself back open. With each beat of the esophagus an accompanying rushing sound altered
its pitch like a wheeze, one that was quickly becoming deafening. This wheeze was the
catfish’s voice and its answer to the brazen questions posed by the President Destrehan,
who was now ahead of Laura Hopkins, falling surprisingly passively.
Laura Hopkins beat her legs and swung her arms. At least she could keep
President Destrehan from being swallowed first. On all sides the esophagus protracted,

Beyond Pluto
8

belittling her efforts. Now it spanned wider than the catfish’s lips had spanned. Were they
shrinking? The esophagus seemed as expansive as the inside of a hollowed out Earth.
They were shrinking at the same rate they were rushing forward. The esophagus closed
on them yet did not crush them. Laura Hopkins remained centered in a vast, dark space
devoid of any sensory input beyond a slight yet increasing pressure on the soles of her
feet. A faint light followed suit, gathering in the bellies of droplets speckled across her
mask until almost blinding. She clawed her mask off and drank the open air of the
midday courtroom. Her ponytail spat as she swung about. Beside her dripped the
President. They locked expressions, then looked at the catfish hovering in its tank, then
looked at each other again. The President grabbed her hand. She interlaced her fingers
with his. He squeezed her hand hard. Then he released her hand. We’re moving on, he
announced to the court with arms raised in a gesture part reassurance and part plea. Call
the next witness. He trod up the aisle as if perfectly dry and took his seat.
Laura Hopkins aimed a flustered nod at the bailiffs. Cautiously they wheeled the
steel cage to the witness stand and opened the gate. The lizard dragged himself from the
cage and slunk up the few stairs. Before his tail could disappear up the stairs his arrowshaped head craned beside the microphone and his clawed fingers scrabbled over the
wood of the witness stand’s topmost ledge. He scanned the entire range of spectators,
pausing along the way to slip his tongue out as if tasting something about them. Laura
Hopkins clenched her fists and bent her knees and elbows to contain her shivers. We’re
you onboard Deep Space, she asked. The lizard looked at her and flapped his tongue.
Yes, I was, he answered.

Beyond Pluto
9

Can you- she paused. Quickly she asked, Can you recount to the jury what
happened onboard?
Yes, I can, the lizard replied. He faced the audience. That is very easy,
considering that you have already told half of the story. The crew did stop aging. They
did worship the catfish and myself according to Captain Becker’s urgings. But the story
does not end there. One question you have neglected to ask holds the truth. Why did
Deep Space return to Earth after one hundred years? There are forces in deep space.
Those forces sought incarnation in the bodies of the catfish and myself. Once incarnated
those forces manipulated Dr. Becker and the crew and devoured them. Then those forces
turned the ship around so that those forces could come to Earth and do the same.
The courtroom was silent. No one shuffled. The President stood, his chest
heaving.
But, the lizard said, I have a secret. And that secret will save you. Would you like
to know what that secret is?
Talk to us straight and stop playing games, demanded the president.
The secret is that everything I just told you is a lie. The crew was dead before they
even passed the last of Saturn’s moons. They had broken into two factions led by males
and killed each other off while leading raids to steal each other’s females. How then, you
ask, could the catfish and I have remained alive for so long? The answer is simple: we are
not the same lizard and catfish that left Earth. Dr. Becker used the lizards and catfish he
brought with him to breed lizards and catfish for the crew to eat. You have discovered no
bones of the other lizards and catfish because the crew pulverized them and combined
them with the soil on board. The catfish and I were babies when the crew died, and given

Beyond Pluto
10

our lifespan, it makes sense that we are alive at the journey’s end. And why, after all, did
Deep Space return home after one hundred years? Because that was the plan all along.
The controls were programmed to automatically steer Deep Space back to the site of its
launch. The lizard paused. But, he said abruptly, I have a secret.
The spectators glanced about. The president pointed and charged, your story is a
lie!
Yes, said the lizard. My story is a lie. But that is not my secret. The crew
members of Deep Space know my secret. What happened to them is my secret. Only the
crew know what happened to the crew. If you care to know my secret the same will
happen to you. Do not think that you are different from them. You are the same as them.
Now, who here is willing to accept that what happened to the crew was not due to some
defect unique to them?
You are not here to make demands of the court, the president protested. You are
here on trial and you have incriminated yourself enough. Now the panel will deliberate
on your sentence. Contain this reptile!
That is all well and fine, said the lizard calmly. But before I return to captivity I
have one more question to pose to the audience: would anyone present like to know my
secret?
The president rushed the stand and tore at his sodden clothing, separating buttons
from his shirt. Nobody wants to hear your secret, he screamed. You will not speak
anymore or I will strangle you with my own hands!
Laura Hopkins placed herself between the president and the lizard. I will hear
your secret, she said. Though she could not bear to look at the president she felt his wild

Beyond Pluto
11

disbelief. Tears clouded her vision. This would be her only opportunity to know. She
leaned toward the lizard. The President stormed away. The lizard’s wet tongue tickled her
ear.

Beyond Pluto
12


