Sally  and  Tom  walked,  almost  next  to  each  other.  Tom  a  step  ahead.  Sally  had  to  take  
a  little  hopping  extra  step  every  now  and  again  to  keep  up  with  him.  She  was  used  to  
it.  Sometimes  it  annoyed  her  but  other  times  she  didn’t  mind.  It  was  a  small  defect,  
one  that  was  easy  to  overlook.  He  had  so  many  wonderful  qualities.  Generosity,  a  
sense  of  humor.  A  good  work  ethic.    
While  they  waited  for  the  light  to  change  at  Seventh  Avenue,  he  reached  over  
and  squeezed  her  hand.  But  it  was  harder  to  walk  holding  hands—they  had  to  step  
in  unison,  which  was  difficult  because  Tom’s  strides  were  longer  than  Sally’s.  Plus  
there  were  so  many  people—weaving  this  way  and  that,  slow  groups  they  had  to  get  
into  single  file  to  pass  while  negotiating  the  flow  of  pedestrians  from  the  other  
direction.  Holding  hands  didn’t  make  any  sense  so  they  let  go.    
Tom  stopped  in  front  of  a  woman  sitting  at  a  small  table  with  a  sign  that  read  
“Psychic  Reading  Free  Sample.”  Sally  was  surprised  and  had  to  make  a  U-­‐turn  
behind  a  couple  of  briefcases  going  in  the  opposite  direction  to  join  him.    
“How  much?”  he  asked.  The  woman  pointed  to  the  sign.    
“Ten  dollars  palm  reading.  You  want  palm  reading  or  free  sample?”  
She  motioned  to  the  chair  across  from  her.    
“I’ll  take  both,”  Tom  said.  Sally  knew  he  was  being  generous.  She  might  have  
done  the  same  thing.  Hell,  everybody  has  to  make  a  living.  

The  Palm  Reader  

1  

She’d  always  been  fearful  of  psychics.  They  gave  her  a  jolting  sort  of  panic.  
What  if  they  actually  knew  something  she  didn’t?  With  the  years,  she  was  becoming  
better  able  to  recognize  the  absurdity  of  it.  She  sighed  at  the  disappointing-­‐yet-­‐
comforting  recognition  of  her  own  mediocrity.  
She  remembered  her  early  twenties  and  the  seeking,  tormented  certainty  
that  she  was  either  special  or  defective.  Her  willingness  to  believe  others’  opinions  
of  her  over  what  she  thought  of  herself.  
All  that  had  eased  well  before  she’d  met  Tom.  He’d  only  added  to  the  
tranquility  of  her  maturing  personality.  A  steady  presence,  quick  to  spot  bullshit.  
But  moody.    
The  woman  put  her  fingertips  on  his  upturned  palm,  but  she  barely  looked  at  
it.  Instead  she  gazed  at  his  face.  “You  like  to  work  for  yourself.  Not  so  much  for  
others.”  On  the  nose,  Sally  thought.  The  woman  continued.  “I  see  travel,  recently,  or  
maybe  you’ll  travel  soon.”  
Tom  looked  at  Sally  and  smirked  gently.  They  were  visiting  New  York  City  
from  Massachusetts,  but  more  than  half  the  people  here,  on  the  edge  of  Times  
Square,  were  tourists.  And  anyone  who  lived  in  New  York  and  who  could  afford  ten  
dollars  for  a  psychic  reading  certainly  had  the  money  to  travel.  It  was  a  safe  bet.    
“You  lost  someone  close  to  you.”  She  waited  for  Tom  to  confirm  or  deny.  He  
shook  his  head.  “It  could  be  someone  you  haven’t  seen  in  a  long  time,  someone  you  
miss.  But  you  miss  someone.”    
Again,  Tom  didn’t  respond,  but  waited  for  her  to  go  on.    

The  Palm  Reader  

2  

“Someone  is  envious  of  you.  Someone  is  holding  you  back.  You  need  to  break  
free  of  that.”  She  looked  down  at  the  lines,  ran  a  fingertip  across  the  landscape  of  his  
palm.  “You’ll  achieve  your  hopes  and  dreams  …  by  2025.  Around  then.”  
“Is  that  the  free  sample?”  Tom  asked.  Her  smile  was  small.  Not  tense,  but  
small.  Bemused,  maybe  a  little  bored.    
“Both.”  She  looked  back  at  his  hand.  Her  fingertips  were  still  resting  on  his.  
She  may  have  closed  her  eyes.  It  was  hard  to  tell  behind  the  thick,  wire-­‐rimmed  
glasses  she  wore.  Sally  was  standing  a  little  behind  her,  and  was  fascinated  by  the  
few  blackheads  on  the  side  of  her  face.  She  wondered  how  the  woman  hadn’t  
squeezed  them  out  of  there.  Maybe  she  wasn’t  aware  of  them.  Maybe  she  thought  
they  were  a  permanent  part  of  her  skin.  Or:  maybe  she  was  so  enlightened  that  she  
didn’t  care  about  her  appearance.  Sally  laughed  at  herself  for  thinking  that,  but  
wasn’t  a  hundred  percent  certain  that  it  wasn’t  true.  
“Where  are  you  from?”  Tom  asked.    
“Romania,”  the  woman  said.  Sally  didn’t  know  what  Romanians  were  
supposed  to  look  like,  but  if  she’d  been  asked  to  guess,  she’d  have  said  the  woman  
was  Spanish.  Jet-­‐black  hair.  Olive-­‐yellow  skin,  but  pale.  Like  the  flamenco-­‐dancer  
doll  an  aunt  had  brought  from  Madrid  when  Sally  was  a  girl.  This  woman  had  the  
coloring,  but  none  of  the  glamour.    
The  psychic  took  a  breath.  She  was  calm,  and  gave  the  impression  that  she  
knew  what  she  was  doing.  

The  Palm  Reader  

3  

“There  is  a  curse  on  you.  There  is  someone  in  your  life  that  doesn’t  want  to  
see  you  succeed.  I  can  help  you  with  that.  I  can  help  to  clean  this  negativity  that  is  
around  you.”  
“That’s  okay.”  Tom  shook  his  head,  smiling,  and  reached  into  his  back  pocket.  
Sally  knew  that  he  didn’t  believe  any  of  it;  he  even  seemed  jovial  as  he  thumbed  the  
contents  of  his  wallet.  He  looked  up  at  Sally.  “You  have  five  dollars?”    
  
Sally  met  Tom  in  a  five  and  dime  store.  She’d  been  shopping  for  thread  to  fix  a  pair  
of  red  pants  and  he  was  in  line  to  buy  a  trashcan  for  his  bathroom.  He’d  glanced  over  
and  caught  a  glimpse  of  her  clear  skin.  She  was  wearing  a  lemony  perfume.  He  told  
her,  months  later,  after  they’d  been  seeing  each  other  for  long  enough  that  they’d  
started  talking  about  moving  in  together,  that  she’d  seemed  clean.  “Clean?”  she’d  
laughed.  “Not  sexy?”  
  

“No,  it’s  not  that.  Different.  You  smelled  good  and,  well,  okay,  if  you  don’t  

want  me  to  say  clean,  I’ll  say…  uncomplicated.”  
  

She  considered  it.  It  sounded  good  to  her.  Like  she  had  something  other  

women  didn’t.  Women  who  painted  themselves  up  and  toddled  about  on  glittery  
high  heels  and  had  secrets  and  other  men—criminals—hiding  in  their  closets.  They  
were  complicated.  She  was  uncomplicated.    
It  wasn’t  until  they’d  moved  in  together  and  she  was  cleaning  the  toilet  one  
Wednesday  afternoon  that  the  conversation  had  come  back  to  her  and  she’d  
remembered  that  he’d  liked  that  about  her—her  uncomplicatedness.  And  she’d  
thought,  uncomplicated:  Easy  to  control.  Is  that  what  he’d  meant?  She’d  shaken  the  

The  Palm  Reader  

4  

thought  loose  from  where  it  had  started  trying  to  burrow  into  her  brain,  and  
managed  to  evade  it.  Until  this  weekend.  
  

The  palm  reader  brought  those  thoughts  back  into  focus.  When  she’d  said  

that  there  was  negativity  around  him,  someone  who  wanted  to  hold  him  back,  the  
first  thing  Sally  had  thought  of  was  herself.  That,  on  some  level,  she’d  wished  him  
harm.  Sometimes  he  seemed  too  big  compared  to  her  and  she  didn’t  know  how  to  be  
herself.    
When  the  Romanian  woman  had  talked  about  the  negativity  around  him,  
Sally  had  felt  guilty.  Yes,  he  could  have  moods  she  didn’t  understand,  times  when  
he’d  seem  distant  and  cold,  and  she’d  been  driven  to  check  his  email  and  his  pockets  
and  even  to  go  through  the  addresses  on  his  GPS  to  see  where  he’d  been.  She’d  been  
quietly  desperate,  unable  to  get  him  to  understand  the  pain  he  was  causing  her  or  to  
see  that  she  was  losing  herself.  To  him.  So,  at  times,  she’d  wished  he’d  leave  her  or  
get  hit  by  a  bus  so  she  could  be  free  of  him.    
But  she  loved  him.  If  she  could  choose  a  period  of  time  to  stay  in  for  the  rest  
of  her  life  it  would  be  the  time  between  that  day  when  she’d  been  shopping  for  the  
thread  and  when  they’d  moved  in  together.    
She  was  living  in  the  basement  of  her  parents’  house  at  the  time.  Her  parents  
were  good  people  who  were  happy  enough  with  each  other  that  they  didn’t  need  her  
too  badly.  She  had  a  separate  entrance  and  they  left  her  alone,  but  she  could  come  
for  dinner  whenever  she  felt  like  it,  and  when  they  traveled  she  watered  the  plants.  
It  was  the  perfect  situation  for  a  pre-­‐school  teacher  living  on  a  pre-­‐school  teacher’s  

The  Palm  Reader  

5  

salary.  And,  after  she  met  Tom,  and  they  were  dating,  some  weekends  he’d  stay  with  
her  or  she’d  stay  with  him,  but  they  had  their  own  places  to  go  home  to.    
Things  were  good  then.  
But  he’d  convinced  her  to  move  in  by  promising  to  pay  the  rent.  He  had  a  
good  job  and  it  was  no  problem,  he’d  said.  “You  can  contribute  by  doing  some  
cooking,”  he’d  said.  Which  is  what  she’d  done,  and  it  was  a  few  months  later  when  
she  realized  that  she  was  doing  all  the  cooking,  and  he  came  home  from  work  every  
evening,  put  his  briefcase  by  the  table  in  the  hall,  and  sat  down  to  watch  the  news  
and  wait  for  her  to  put  food  on  the  table.  
  
He’d  brought  her  on  vacation  several  times.  Places  she  wouldn’t  have  been  able  to  
afford  on  her  teacher’s  salary.  They’d  been  to  Laguna  Beach,  Santa  Fe,  Iceland,  
Mexico,  and  now  New  York.  He  liked  nice  hotels.  She  found  them  sterile  and  pushed  
for  an  Airbnb,  arguing  that  they  could  have  some  really  nice  meals  with  the  money  
they’d  save.  He  always  booked  the  place  though,  and  told  her  it  didn’t  matter  that  it  
was  more  expensive—they  wouldn’t  have  to  see  other  people’s  clutter  in  the  
corners;  they’d  come  home  in  the  afternoon  to  find  their  bed  made  up.  A  chocolate  
on  the  pillow.      
In  the  end  she  always  relented,  but  when  they  went  to  the  west  village  for  a  
meal  with  some  college  friends  of  his,  and  she’d  seen  the  red-­‐brick  storefronts  and  
cafes  serving  breakfast-­‐cereal  lattes,  brioche  donuts,  kombucha  cocktails,  chia  
puddings,  she’d  wished  they  could  stay  down  there.  The  small  buildings,  the  tiny  
shops  and  galleries  were  much  more  inviting  than  the  gigantic  buildings  around  

The  Palm  Reader  

6  

Time’s  Square,  and,  although  she  liked  the  uptown  diners,  she  wished  they  could’ve  
spent  more  of  their  time  downtown.  
  

It’s  worth  mentioning  Tom’s  friends,  not  just  the  ones  they  went  to  dinner  

with,  but  all  of  them,  and  there  were  a  lot.  They  adored  him,  and  he  always  had  the  
best  time  when  he  was  with  them.  Sally  loved  to  see  them  too  because  they  brought  
out  a  side  of  him  that  she  sometimes  felt  she’d  lost  the  ability  to  elicit.  He  would  
laugh  and  tell  stories  and  there  would  be  so  much  good  humor  and  cheerfulness  in  
the  air.  He  told  Sally  that  they  loved  her  too,  and  she  liked  them.  But  after  a  night  out  
with  crowds  of  friends,  he  always  seemed  spent,  and  their  time  together,  just  the  
two  of  them,  felt  less  fun  as  he  retreated  into  himself  and  she  retreated  into  herself  
in  self-­‐defense.  
  
That  evening,  after  the  psychic  reading,  they  went  for  a  romantic  dinner—just  the  
two  of  them—at  a  place  that  revolved  slowly  over  the  course  of  the  meal,  so  you  
could  have  a  different  view  of  the  city,  lit  up  at  night,  throughout.  They  didn’t  get  a  
table  next  to  the  window,  so  Sally  was  aware  of  seeming  rude  as  she  stared  right  
through  the  middle  of  the  couple  at  the  next  table:  a  human  frame  for  the  city  that  
passed  by  so  slowly  you  didn’t  even  realize  it  was  moving.  
  

It  was  the  perfect  place  for  a  marriage  proposal,  Sally  thought.  She  had  put  on  

a  new  dress—it  had  a  scoop  neck  that  she  knew  flattered  her—and  smooth  glass  
droplet  earrings.  They’d  walked  most  of  the  day.  The  weather  had  been  good  so  
they’d  stayed  outside  rather  than  go  to  museums,  and  had  covered  miles  of  concrete.  
Sally’s  feet  were  sore;  she  had  an  appetite  and  looked  forward  to  eating.  They  

The  Palm  Reader  

7  

studied  the  tall  menus.  Tom  ordered  a  bottle  of  chardonnay.  He  didn’t  have  to  ask  
because  he  knew  Sally  was  partial  to  buttery  whites.  
  

“Back  home  tomorrow,”  Sally  sighed,  and  instantly  regretted  it.  A  truly  boring  

thing  to  say.  Tom  ignored  it.  
  

“You  look  nice,”  he  said.  

  

“We  must  have  walked  ten  miles.”  She  turned  over  her  iPhone  to  check.  

“Well.  Almost.  Nine  point  two.”    
  

“Feels  great,  doesn’t  it?”  Tom  said.  “Not  to  be  at  a  desk.”  

  

“I  don’t  sit  at  a  desk  all  that  often,”  Sally  reminded  him.  He  smiled  and  gazed  

at  the  window.    
“Look.  We’re  getting  a  view  of  the  Empire  State  Building.”  Sally  turned.  The  
lovely  rocket-­‐shaped  structure  had  just  edged  into  the  window.  Sally  had  to  turn  to  
see  it.  Her  neck  hurt  and  she  remembered  the  story  a  friend  had  told  her  recently  
about  a  youngish  person  who  had  had  a  pain  in  their  spine  that  turned  out  to  be  
cancer.  The  person  was  “riddled,”  her  friend  had  said  solemnly.  Sally  hated  it  when  
people  used  that  word.    
The  thought  left  as  quickly  as  the  pain  in  her  neck  vanished,  but  an  unsettled  
feeling  remained,  detached  from  the  thought  that  had  sparked  it.  It  crept  through  
her  mind,  joined  forces  with  the  lingering  doubt  that  the  palm  reader  had  produced,  
and  wormed  its  way  around,  dissolving  contentedness  like  nail  polish  remover.  She  
took  a  long,  cool  swallow  of  chardonnay.    
  

The  Palm  Reader  

8  

The  next  morning,  Sally  woke  first.  Her  head  hurt  and  her  mouth  tasted  like  
aluminum.  She  thought  resentfully  that  Tom  must  have  ordered  a  cheap  bottle  of  
wine.  And  there  had  been  no  ring.  She’d  slid  her  fork  into  the  flourless  chocolate  
lava  cake  that  Tom  had  ordered  for  dessert,  expecting  the  tines  to  clink  diamond,  
but  there  was  nothing,  just  gooey  chocolate.  For  the  millionth  time,  she  wondered  if  
he  really  did  love  her—a  question  that  reliably  distracted  her  from  wondering  
whether  she  actually  loved  him.  
After  brushing  her  teeth  and  pulling  on  sweats,  she  stood  at  the  foot  of  the  
bed,  watching  him  sleep.  The  sparse  tufts  of  black  hair  growing  from  his  shoulders  
made  him  seem  vulnerable,  nothing  like  the  Romanian  palm-­‐reader’s  blackheads.  
Tom’s  hairy  shoulders  were  invisible  to  him,  which  made  him  innocent.  But  the  
palm-­‐reader’s  blackheads  were  an  affront.    
Sally  didn’t  want  to  touch  Tom.  She  felt  no  inclination  to  curl  around  his  
sleeping  shoulder  and  caress  him.  She  wasn’t  sure  why,  but  she  wanted  to  get  out  of  
there.  It  was  all  too  much.  She’d  felt  stupid  for  thinking  he  was  going  to  propose,  and  
guilty  for  feeling  disappointed.  She  pulled  her  sneakers  on  as  quietly  as  possible,  slid  
the  key  card  off  the  bureau,  and  clicked  the  door  closed  behind  her.  As  she  turned,  
Tom’s  muffled  voice  called  her  name.  She  froze.  At  the  end  of  the  hallway,  the  
elevator  doors  pinged.  “Sally?”  Tom  called.  Could  he  tell  she  was  outside  the  door?  
Was  he  dreaming?  A  cleaning  woman  pushed  a  cart  full  of  towels  and  supplies  
toward  her.  She  could  hear  the  bed  creak,  footsteps,  but  he  didn’t  open  the  door.  He  
must  have  gone  to  the  bathroom.  She  walked  resolutely  to  the  elevator.  She  smiled  
at  the  cleaning  woman  who  said  “good  morning”  with  a  heavy  accent.  She  could’ve  

The  Palm  Reader  

9  

been  somebody’s  grandmother  and  Sally  felt  sorry  for  her—she  should  be  retired,  
living  somewhere  warm.    
On  the  street,  the  wind  was  blowing  much  colder  than  it  had  been  yesterday.  
Sally  pulled  her  sweater  around  her  and  wished  she’d  brought  her  jacket.  As  she  
walked,  her  hair  getting  whipped  into  wiry  knobs,  she  started  to  feel  stupid.  What  
was  she  running  away  from?  This  was  the  man  she  was  probably  going  to  marry.  
Had  she  not  matured  one  whit  from  the  six-­‐year-­‐old  who’d  left  a  note  for  her  
parents,  saying  that  she’d  run  away,  and  that  they’d  never  find  her  because  she  was  
going  to  the  park?  What  was  that  all  about?  She’d  obviously  wanted  to  be  found—
despite  whatever  anger  she’d  had  over  whatever  slight  had  set  her  off.  Here  she  was  
again—feeling  inadequate  and  stupid  and  wanting  someone—Tom—to  make  her  
feel  better.  She  wanted  him  to  wonder  where  she  was.  To  worry  about  her.  To  doubt  
himself  and  his  ability  to  make  her  happy.  She  walked  a  couple  of  blocks  south  and  
took  a  left  on  Seventh  Avenue.  
The  palm  reader’s  table  was  there,  with  the  two  chairs,  and  the  sign  that  
offered  a  free  sample.  She  lingered,  but  couldn’t  see  any  storefront—just  the  table  in  
front  of  a  barber  shop,  a  FedEx  store,  and  a  door,  to  the  right  of  which  was  a  
smudged  wall  plate  with  a  row  of  doorbells.  None  of  them  had  names,  just  numbers.  
Sally  peered  through  the  glass—there  was  a  dark  hallway  and  an  elevator  at  the  end.  
There  must  have  been  a  door  immediately  to  the  right  that  she  couldn’t  see  because  
all  of  a  sudden,  the  Romanian  palm  reader  was  inches  from  her  nose,  on  the  other  
side  of  the  glass.  Sally  stumbled  backwards  and  the  woman  came  out.  She  didn’t  
acknowledge  Sally,  as  though  she  were  used  to  strange  people  peering  in  the  door.    

The  Palm  Reader  

10  

She  undoubtedly  got  a  lot  of  shit.  While  many  people  may  have  come  to  her  
sincerely  wanting  their  futures  told  or  their  curses  broken,  Sally  was  certain  that  
she  must’ve  also  gotten  her  fair  share  of  crazies  and  drunken  frat  boys.  She  sat  
down,  took  out  a  cell  phone,  and  started  texting  someone  or  checking  the  weather  or  
Instagram.  Sally  couldn’t  tell.  She  stood  and  watched  her  for  a  few  moments,  until  
she  started  to  feel  uncomfortable.  As  she  turned  to  go,  the  woman  said,  “You  want  
reading?”  
Sally  stopped.  She  could  feel  the  muscles  in  her  calves  start  to  fire  up,  ready  
to  run,  but  she  took  a  breath  and  said,  “Maybe  just  the  free  sample.”  
“Sit  down.”  The  woman  motioned  to  the  chair.  She  was  wearing  a  black  
canvas  coat  that  had  a  layer  of  something  white  dulling  it,  like  when  you  clean  
something  with  soap  but  don’t  rinse  it.  
Sally  tucked  her  legs  under  her  and  pulled  her  sweater  tight  around  her  
shoulders.    The  woman  motioned  for  her  to  put  her  hand  onto  the  table.  She  peered  
at  her  palm  and  Sally’s  heart  began  to  race  and  her  arm  to  numb  as  though  it  were  in  
a  blood  pressure  cuff.  
“You  are  sad,”  the  woman  said,  which  made  tears  that  Sally  had  no  idea  were  
on  tap  spring  to  the  surface  of  her  eyes.  She  turned  away  and  wiped  at  her  nose  with  
the  back  of  her  hand.  The  cold  wind  had  already  made  her  nose  feel  drippy.    
“You  lose  somebody  close  to  you?”  the  palm  reader  said,  looking  at  Sally  for  
confirmation.  “Or  you  were  sad  as  a  child?  You  were  sad  child?”  Sally  shrugged  and  
started  to  calm  down.  This  woman  wasn’t  going  to  tell  her  anything  revelatory.  
“Is  that  the  free  sample?  Because  I  don’t  have  my  wallet,  so….”  

The  Palm  Reader  

11  

“Yes,”  the  woman  said,  taking  her  phone  out  again  and  lowering  her  head  to  
look  at  it.  “That’s  it.  You  want  more,  you  get  your  wallet.”  
“I’m  sorry,”  Sally  said.  “It’s  just,  I  left  without  my  purse.”  She  patted  the  
pockets  of  her  sweatpants  to  indicate  that  they  were  empty.  She  pulled  out  the  card  
and  showed  it  to  her—just  a  room  key,  not  a  credit  card.  
“That’s  a  nice  hotel,”  the  woman  said.    
“Yes.  I  wouldn’t  stay  there,  but  my  boyfriend….”  She  trailed  off.  
“You  have  a  nice  stay.  Goodbye.”    
Sally  stood  up.  The  woman  was  completely  immersed  in  her  phone  now,  and  
ignored  her.  Sally  hugged  herself  slowly  back  to  the  hotel.  
  
It  was  a  comfort  to  be  back  in  Tom’s  Acura.  She  would  miss  the  city,  especially  
neighborhoods  like  the  west  village.  But  it  was  nice  to  be  sitting  down,  letting  Tom  
drive.  She  was  full—they’d  eaten  huge  omelets  and  rye  toast  and  those  amazing  
New  York  City  hash  browns—before  having  the  car  brought  back  from  wherever  
those  young  guys  had  taken  it.  Slipping  into  the  passenger  seat  was  like  getting  into  
her  favorite  jeans.  The  leather  seat  like  a  gloved  hand  carrying  her  safely  home.  She  
closed  her  eyes  and  enjoyed  the  feeling  of  her  hangover  easing.    
Soon,  however,  the  movement  of  the  car  as  Tom  hurled  it  around  corners  and  
slammed  the  brakes  at  stoplights  started  to  make  Sally  feel  nauseous  and  she  
opened  her  eyes.  They  were  almost  to  the  West  Side  Highway,  but  the  traffic  was  
terrible.  As  they  waited  at  a  light,  a  small  man  with  fingerless  gloves  approached  the  
car  with  a  spray  bottle  and  squeegee.  Tom  waved  him  away  and  changed  the  station.  

The  Palm  Reader  

12  

As  he  crossed  in  front  of  the  car  on  his  way  to  the  next  lane,  he  caught  Sally’s  eye  
and  lingered  for  a  moment.  He  tilted  his  head  in  the  direction  of  Tom  behind  the  
wheel  and  flashed  him  the  finger;  but  he  was  smiling  at  Sally.  She  laughed  out  loud  
as  he  approached  the  driver  of  the  car  next  to  them.  She  looked  at  Tom  to  see  if  he’d  
noticed,  but  now  he  was  trying  to  get  Waze  to  work  on  his  iPhone.  
“App  used  to  mean  appetizer,”  Sally  smiled.  “Not  anymore.”  
“Dammit,”  Tom  said  to  his  phone.  He  handed  it  to  Sally  as  traffic  eased  and  
they  pulled  around  the  corner.  “Can  you  restart  this?”  
She  directed  him  until  they  were  on  95,  halfway  to  Hartford.  Then  she  went  
to  sleep.  
  
In  the  elevator  up  to  their  apartment,  Tom  put  his  arm  around  Sally’s  shoulder  and  
squeezed  her,  kissed  the  top  of  her  head.  
  

“I  missed  you  this  morning,”  he  said,  breathing  her  smell  in  noisily,  lustily.  He  

grabbed  her  ass  as  she  exited  the  elevator,  tugging  her  small  case  behind  her.  
  

“You’re  like  a  kid  sometimes,”  she  said  playfully.    

  

They  didn’t  unpack  before  unwrapping  each  other’s  clothing  and  falling  into  

bed.         
  
After,  they  watched  through  the  window  as  the  sky  darkened.    
  

Sally  turned  onto  her  back  and  stared  at  the  ceiling.  It  was  impeccably  

white—the  little  recessed  light  bulbs  so  earnest  and  perfectly  spaced.  She  
remembered  the  ceiling  of  her  childhood  room—it  was  swirled  with  some  kind  of  

The  Palm  Reader  

13  

yellow  textured  plaster  and  she  would  spend  what  felt  like  hours  finding  shapes  in  it  
as  she  lay  in  bed  on  weekend  mornings.  Reindeer,  butterflies,  Virginia.  
  

“What  did  you  think  of  that  palm  reader?”  she  said.    

  

“The  palm  reader?”  Tom  pulled  the  comforter  up  to  his  chin.  He  was  on  his  

side,  looking  at  her  profile.  
  

“Yeah.  What  did  you  think?  About  what  she  said?”  

  

“It’s  all  bullshit,  obviously.”  

  

“You’re  sure  about  that?  Completely?  You  don’t  think  there’s  somebody  

trying  to  do  you  harm?”  
  

“Nope,”  he  said,  the  word  stretched  out  like  a  southerner’s  drawl.  “Nobody’s  

going  to  do  me  any  harm.  Not  that  she  knows  about  anyway.  You  hungry?”  
  

She  shook  her  head.  “No,  but  I’ll  make  some  dinner.”  

  

“I’ll  get  it.”  He  sat  up,  tucked  the  comforter  into  his  crotch.    

  

“I  went  back  there,”  Sally  said.  “To  the  palm  reader.  This  morning.”  Tom  

pulled  pants  on  and  turned  to  face  her.  “She  said  I  was  sad.”  
  

He  expelled  a  laugh  like  air  from  a  punctured  tire.  “See?  She  was  full  of  shit.  

You  know  that.”  
“But  I  am  kind  of  sad.”  
Tom  crawled  onto  the  bed  and  kneeled  next  to  her.  He  was  so  tall,  towering  
over  her.  He  used  his  whole  palm  to  push  the  hair  away  from  the  side  of  her  face.  
Tears,  for  the  second  time  that  day,  showed  up  in  her  eyes.  One  escaped.  Not  
substantial  enough  to  make  it  to  her  ear,  it  dissolved  to  nothing  halfway  down  her  
temple.  Tom  was  looking  at  her.  Waiting  for  her  to  say  more?  Confused?  Horrified?  

The  Palm  Reader  

14  

She  looked  away,  unsure  what  he  was  thinking.  He  lay  down  next  to  her.  She  
remembered  the  terror  and  the  guilt  that  she’d  felt  when  the  psychic  had  told  Tom  
that  someone  wanted  to  harm  him,  and  it  seemed  like  such  a  long  time  ago.  It  had  
nothing  to  do  with  this  moment:  Tom  breathing,  his  nose  against  her  neck.  He  
continued  to  stroke  her  hair  and  she  felt  grateful  for  the  kindness.  She  wanted  to  
know  the  answers  to  so  many  things  but  she  didn’t  know  how  to  ask  the  questions.  
“I’ll  make  grilled  cheese.”  Tom  stood  up  and  went  to  the  kitchen.  
  

Sally  was  hungry,  so  she  followed.  

  
  

  

  
  
  

The  Palm  Reader  

15  


