Elizabeth smiled tightly, nodding her head in acknowledgement of their big grins
and waves, and returned her gaze to her book. Typical Americans, see you more than
once and think you’re best friends. The group had a few extra people tonight, she
noticed.
Usually it was a heavy set older man and a corpulent older woman, with a reedy,
balding younger man, and a younger woman. Elizabeth thought the younger woman, so
clearly her mother's daughter, must be about her own age, and untroubled by genetics
as destiny. Do you like seeing your future? Does your husband?
Tonight two additional couples clustered with them, the women unmistakably
additional daughters. A gawky teen, trying to be Goth without the piercings, glanced up,
saw Elizabeth and looked away. She turned her back to the merry group, absorbed in
her phone.
Elizabeth enjoyed observing the local fauna and theorizing about their motives
and behaviors. She dined in this restaurant every Sunday and for the past six weeks
had encountered this family. The strong resemblance between the two women had, for
Elizabeth, immediately settled their relationship. The older man had to be the mother's
husband. The younger man's easy manner with the others indicated a long term
familiarity, and Elizabeth allowed herself to tag him as the son-in-law. From overheard
snippets of conversation (and it was impossible not to overhear them at times), she
deduced the son-in-law worked in the older man's business.

1

Elizabeth liked the small, family owned restaurant. She appreciated the lack of
TV sets, tee-shirts and flip-flops. If you closed your eyes and wished very hard, the food
gave a decent imitation of Italian. Best of all, almost nothing on the menu was deepfried. After two visits they remembered her preferences in wine and seating. And they
always addressed her as "Miss Toliver", never evincing that ghastly American penchant
for putting everyone on an immediate first name basis.
The door opened and a man in his thirties entered, his eyes sweeping the room.
"Over here," several people in the family group called. He waved and pointed to the bar,
then mimed hoisting a glass. They laughed and showed him their own, half-empty, beer
mugs.
Elizabeth, who'd glanced up at the man's arrival, returned to her book. Good,
maybe the last of the tribe has arrived and they'll be seated soon. I expect they haven't
seated me yet because they're still figuring out how to seat that horde.
Sensing someone approaching she looked up and saw the hostess. “I’m so sorry
to keep you waiting,” she said. “As you can see, we have a large party tonight. If you’d
care to sit at the bar we could seat you immediately?”
Elizabeth smiled at her. “I can certainly wait another few minutes,” she said.
“Are you sure? Can I bring you a glass of wine while you wait? On me.”
“Thank you, that would be lovely.”
Elizabeth barely had time to resume reading before someone else approached.
Assuming it was a waitress she looked up and reached for the glass of wine. Except it
wasn’t the waitress, it was the young man who’d just entered. Elizabeth’s smile
disappeared.

2

“Yes?” she asked.
“Um, hi, I’m Bob. Bob Matthews.” He held out his hand but Elizabeth didn’t
reciprocate. After a moment he withdrew his hand and said, “We, ah, we couldn’t help
noticing you’re alone and my folks said you’re a regular here and they feel bad you
haven’t been seated, I guess that’s ʼcause of us?”
“I believe so,” Elizabeth said, no warmth in her voice. “However I’ve been
assured my table will be ready soon. Ah, and here’s my wine. Thank you,” she said to
the waitress. What on earth does this man want? What possible business could it be of
his whether I’m alone or not? Bloody Americans, think they can butt into anyone’s
business will-he nil-he. She looked back at her book but the man didn’t leave.
“Um, look,” he said, “I don’t mean to be in your business or anything, but my folks
feel like they know you, they see you here so often and we’re celebrating and, well, they
wanted to ask you to join us.”
Know me? Because we happen to meet at the same restaurant once a week?
Honestly.
“Thank you, Mr. Mathis,” she said, deliberately mispronouncing his name. “I’m
quite fine as I am.”
“Matthews,” he said. “Okay, fine. Sorry I disturbed you.”
I’m going to have to find a new place to eat, this is really too much. Sad, I was
just getting comfortable here.
She kept her eyes on her book and sipped her wine, but couldn’t concentrate.
Annoyance and hunger gnawed at her, and the wine went straight to her head. If they
don’t seat me in the next three minutes I’m leaving.

3

The hubbub died down and she looked up. As expected, the family party had
been led into the dining room, leaving blessed calm in their place. But Bob Matthews
hadn’t gone in with them. He walked toward her and smiled.
“I’m sorry if I made you uncomfortable before,” he said. “Look, this is dumb. They
don’t have a big enough table for all of us, unless they add your table, which isn’t fair to
you. And we really do feel bad that you’ve been kept waiting because of us. So please,
would you be my guest tonight? We don’t have to sit with the clan, I don’t mind, but I do
want to have dinner here. Please? It’s my folks’ anniversary.”
Why won’t this man leave me alone? “No worries, I’ll just dine in the bar and they
can add my table to yours.”
He looked stricken. “We’ve really ruined your evening, haven’t we? I’m so sorry.
Look, at least let me pick up your bill tonight, okay?”
“That’s quite all right,” Elizabeth said. “I don’t need looking after. Enjoy your
party. Good night.”
She rose and walked past him, to the hostess station. “I’ll take that seat in the bar
after all,” she said and followed the hostess to her seat.
She fumed through her meal, barely tasting it. Although she hadn’t ordered it,
another glass of wine appeared, and she drank it. Adding to her annoyance, the bar
was too dim to read her book, so she pulled out her phone, read her e-mails and a few
texts, then began perusing news sites. War, flood, famine, drought, murder. Nothing
new under the sun.
Tired, sated and a bit tipsy, she asked for her check.
“All taken care of,” the barman said. “Would you like a coffee? Tiramisu? You

4

know we make it in house.”
She started to ask by whom but didn’t bother. That man, Bob, simply doesn’t
understand the meaning of “no”. Instead she guestimated the tab and left a handsome
tip.

“That was close,” Tiff said, snuggling deeper into Elizabeth’s arms. “I thought I’d
faint dead away when I saw you sitting there. But you just played the ice queen. And
Uncle Bob, pestering you to join us, I almost died.”
“I’ve had a lot of practice,” Elizabeth said, stroking Tiff’s hair. “I had no idea that
was your family. But I did almost laugh out loud when you started texting me. What
were you thinking?”
Tiff shrugged.
“How was the party?” Elizabeth asked.
“Ghahstlee” Tiff said, in her most exaggerated Southern drawl. “Think about it,
what can you expect from a family that named me Tiffany?”
“Could have been worse,” Elizabeth said. “I could have accepted Bob’s
invitation.”
They laughed and laughed – laughed until it hurt and laughed some more. This is
all I need, all I could ever want. I found heaven in this Southern-fried hell.

5


