My name is Lucinda Hughes. I used to work down at the
Stafford hospital before I retired, I worked in the psychiatric unit. I
worked there for 30 year without incident. Well almost without
incident.
It happened about a week after I had officially started the job. I
had worked through almost my entire shift, I was just about to leave.
But I had to check on the patients one last time. I’d gotten through
three of the five patients I had on my list and all three of them were
as mellow as could be. But then I got to the fourth room, checking my
watch as I knocked on the door. It was exactly 11:11pm when I opened
the door to Micah Burton’s room and the unpredictable universe in
his mind broke loose. I looked away from my watch to come face to
face with him. Brown eyes stared back at me with this broken look
inside them that I couldn’t even begin to understand. At first.
Almost as soon as we had made eye contact a burst of air had
rushed me, feeling like it had come straight from him and
completely wrapped around me like a blanket. And all in a split
second I left the hospital floor and was transported to a place far
from the psych ward but yet still so close. It was a place that I
instantly knew defied the laws of our world.
It took my eyes several moments to adjust to this new change,
flashes of color and shapes that went beyond logic whizzed past me
until finally the motion around me stopped.
I found myself in what could only be described as a hyper
realistic painting. But it appeared to be melting and the colors started
to blend together. Everything around me seemed to be crumbling to
pieces right infront of my eyes. I tried to make out my surroundings,
I had to figure out what was going on. I quickly found that I was
inside a very small room with a dull light and almost nothing inside
it. In fact the only thing in the room was an old, worn out looking
dining chair. The wood was dark in color, with knicks and cuts on the

legs and two spokes missing from the back. I stared at the chair for a
moment, a moment that lead to a very long period where I lost sense
of time. I became transfixed with the chair, watching it as if I
expected it to move. The light started to flicker, snapping me briefly
out of my daze. I looked up just as the light went out. It came back on
a second later and when the light reached the chair it was no longer
empty. I took a step back, startled and a bit afraid as the male figure
leaned forward, resting his arms on his knees. He never looked up at
me but somehow I knew exactly who the figure was.
And then I felt my feet leave the ground. The room evaporated
and I was left with nothing but white in all directions. The whiteness
gradually got brighter and brighter until I had to shield my eyes with
the sleeve of my shirt. A moment later the brightness faded and I
lowered my arm to find I was somewhere outside of earth, the planet
as far away as it would be if I were in a shuttle. It was as beautiful as
one would imagine it would be. But I didn’t want to be outside of the
planet, I wanted to be home. So I pushed forward, like I was
swimming. I kept at it until the earth started to bend and warp and
then suddenly it wasn’t the earth I was looking at but a forest. A
forest in the middle of the galaxy, the edges of the forest blurring
reality. I floated my way over until my feet landed on the forest floor.
The leaves and twigs crunched underneath me as I wandered
through the woods, looking for something; anything really that could
get me out of this mess. I started to think someone was following me
and every time I turned around I would see the shadow of something
rushing by me. And then the whispering started, so quiet at first that
I barely noticed but then it became so loud that my ears started to
hurt. I couldn’t make out what was being said, it was almost as if it
was another language.
A flash of a memory came to my mind as the voices overcame
me. I remembered distinctly Micah telling me about going through
the exact same scenario, being trapped in an endless forest with
monsters following him.

I had let out a scream of frustration as the voices got louder still
and I took off running, trying to escape. But they followed, right on
my heels as I ran. I ran until I saw something in the distance. As I got
closer I realized it was a hospital door, just sticking out of the ground
in the middle of a dense forest where it has no rhyme or reason for
being there. But for some reason in that moment it was like a ray of
hope. So I picked up speed, heading straight for the door that I knew
deep down wouldn’t do anything to save me. But regardless I opened
it and rushed through the threshold.
As soon as I made it through the door I was standing back in the
same exact spot I had been in before I had been sucked into Micah’s
hallucinations. It was like waking up from a dream that didn’t make
sense. For several minutes I stood there staring into his brown eyes in
hopes I would find answers there. But I never did and I stepped back
out the door and into the brightly lit hallway, running into one of my
co-workers. She asked me what was wrong but I couldn’t bring
myself to voice what had just happened. In fact I couldn’t bring it in
myself to tell anyone, for 30 years I let it fester in my mind. And it
was never spoken of, until now.
“Thank you for telling me again what’s going on, Lucinda.” the
doctor smiles warmly at me as he scribbles down notes.
“But of course we looked at the records and there was never a
Micah Burton emitted into the hospital you worked at. So from here
we need to determine why your mind fabricated this entire event…”
the doctor drones on but I’ve stopped listening. I look out the window
of my little hospital room, watching the sun set.
The lights flicker but the doctor doesn’t seem to notice as he
continues to talk on and on about medication and treatment. And
then the power cuts off completely. The doctor groans in irritation
before leaving the room to investigate. The lights come on a second
later and instantly I can feel this presence behind me. I whirl around
and the first thing I see is a pair of brown eyes.


