Was it my husband’s steady hand feeling for a pulse near the hollow of my throat? I think
not. The touch felt younger, uncertain. He – I sensed a he – touched my limp hand with the
delicacy of a connoisseur sorting the blooms of rare flowers, as though identifying the
shredded orchids steaming in the ruins of my greenhouse.
Evan had puttered and pruned in the orchard despite the rumbling earth, the hourly
emergency broadcast system bulletins directing people to shelter. Anxious, I took refuge in
the humid gloom of the greenhouse to relax and wait for him, basking with my tomatoes in
the Vivaldi pouring from my iPod dock. If I had stayed by Evan’s side as I usually did, I
might have enjoyed death, ascended to the light with my lifelong love, avoiding the million
shards of glass that diced me, the slow bake of my blistered limbs.
“This one lives,” my rescuer mumbled, his three simple words as long as any
sentence I’d hear in the muted months ahead. I couldn’t see him or his gentle hand, but a
brief inner satisfaction tingled through my torn palm. In another scenario, he might have
flicked a thumbs-up and slapped a partner on the shoulder. But the dismay oozing from
him was palpable, a melancholy salve that anointed my wounds with sorrow.
My earliest perceptions of the Catastrophe entered and faded from my mind in a
swirl of agony. I recall pain so acute I could not claim it. Thirst so damning I felt cast into
a hell realm. My nostrils perpetually burned with brimstone and rotting flesh, my ears

 Enter the Kingdom

2

itched with garbled voices dense with dismay. The world damned me with voices that
could not comfort because the world had revolved beyond comfort.
As a few more bedraggled souls trickled into our camp, a partially intact fire station
cut into the side of a granite-bound hill, we began to scratch a living from whatever ruins
held the promise of bottled water and preserved food – a resort hotel, a school cafeteria, a
corporate chain restaurant. We lived – and died – for more than a year in a cold, dark, static
world of near-starvation, retreating often into exhausted sleep. We who remain have nearly
lost our voices.

After weeks of silence and the physical healing that still mocks my broken spirit, I
began to ask questions, perhaps only to hear myself speak. I surprise myself for voicing
questions when the answers already live inside me.
“Does our accidental survival offend these young zealots?”
I can see that Flavia, one of the Caretakers, is not our friend in spite of her accessible
nature, but instinct pushes me to question her anyway.
She turns from her work and frowns. “How so?”
“The Soldiers of God treat us as if the circumstances of our bleak lives are not
restrictive enough.” I dare not say this in their presence because the Law says that “silent
women are the only good women.”
Flavia rolls her eyes when I ask if she understands the Law.
“Who does?” She paces about the dingy, cave-like room feigning nonchalance,
fingering the heavy gold crucifix that marks her as a former Catholic.

 Enter the Kingdom

3

Teen-aged Flavia always states the obvious with a wise air. I wait for her to say
more. She stares at the wall for a moment.
“Things are different since the Catastrophe, Liberty. Hush, now.”
Twice her age, I should counsel her with the wisdom of my years, but there is no
future for the aged. There is no future for anyone. Thus, illogically, one of the youngest
among us is our leader. Made wary and cynical before her time, Flavia shows empathy by
clucking softly on the rare occasions when we Companions fret and complain. We find
more to gripe about since the Soldiers discovered more food. Why is it easier for us to die
in abject misery, and harder to endure the conundrum of this survival when circumstances
improve?
Flavia cannot or will not help anyone with their ridiculous wish to escape, physically
or mentally, and we all wish to, whether by stealth or by suicide. Like a warden, she
scrawls each complaint on the yellow legal pad she binds to a scratched Lucite clipboard,
dusted with the inescapable volcanic ash that coats everything.
Flavia is not a Companion, but neither is she a Soldier of God. She never wears their
white or blue robes, nor the wooden cross painted with flames and ocean waves that hang
from a black cord around their hips. Even she bows her head when the Soldiers speak to
her.

Pulled from the wreckage, the tinkling glass, creaking aluminum frames, and
smoking lumber, I am one of a handful of reluctant witnesses to the destruction of our
Arizona community. There were warnings, of course, years of observation by the US

 Enter the Kingdom

4

Geological Service, the geologists and volcanologists monitoring the probability of the
Yellowstone dome erupting into a sea of fire. Difficult to imagine, I know, even if you had
viewed the speculative portrayals of this improbable calamity on television or in videos
posted online. As Earth’s many ecosystems and climates became unstable, the Yellowstone
Dome grew large and restless, a belly pregnant with fiery demons. Volcanoes around the
world began to smoke and snort and rattle in demented harmony – Shinmoedake in Japan,
Eyjafjallajokull in Iceland, Nyamuragira in the Congo, Popocatépetl in México – the many
lovely, exotic place names disguising their raw, horrific power.
The first cataclysmic blowdown in Yellowstone buried North America in a mantle of
volcanic ash that descended like a blizzard from hell. The immense California coastal city
running from San Diego through the City of Angels and on to San Fran perished,
alternately scorched and drenched in a barrage of violent quakes, fires, and rogue ocean
waves. Before we survivors in Arizona began to navigate the immensity of our despair, to
nurse our burns and broken limbs and battered spirits, the event triggered others hundreds
and even thousands of miles away. We learned later from a jigsaw of scattered survivor
transmissions that the eruptions of Mt. Rainier and Kilauea also obliterated Seattle,
Portland, and Hawaii’s “Big Island.” Momotombo erupted spectacularly in Nicaragua,
blowing its top and setting off a chain of seismic events in Central and South America,
bringing major cities and steaming jungles to ruin. A 150-foot tsunami spawned by the
eruption and collapse of the Cumbre Vieja volcano in the Canary Islands raked away the
coastlines of Europe and swallowed the British Isles, but for a few high peaks in Wales.
The tsunami also inundated the eastern North American coast, swallowing low-lying

 Enter the Kingdom

5

Florida. In this modern Atlantean disaster, the West Indies completely disappeared again
under churning waves. Almost overnight, dozens of new cones and calderas formed. Nine
and ten-point earthquakes ripped across earth’s fault lines, reshaping continents, triggering
more eruptions and flank collapses. Cities disappeared into immense watery maelstroms
and flood surges or volcanic upheavals and lava firestorms that licked and lashed Earth’s
continents into strange configurations that will take decades – maybe centuries, now – to
remap.
Before government and corporate communications ceased, more than one hundred of
the world’s fourteen hundred active volcanoes erupted, according to scattered survivors
who reach out with tenuous ham radio pleas. Earth is cocooned in a dusky, depressing
volcanic winter. The Arctic and Antarctic ice caps melted and were rapidly refrozen in the
wintery assault that continues to besiege us after nearly two rotations around the sun.

Augusta and Flavia are cousins, the only related souls in our new all-female camp.
Augusta gains special favor from the Soldiers because of her nearly intact house and wind
generated electrical system. The solar panels are useless in this unnatural winter, but the
wind fingers everything with relentless fury. Flavia also gains privilege with her father’s
ham radio. At first, a fragile radio network replaced the gargantuan internet and media
broadcast community. Flavia contacted survivors in scattered places before the Soldiers of
God apprehended all verbal and material exchanges. Uncertain about our very existence,
we applauded the Soldiers’ early determination to forge a connection to the Divine and we
acquiesced to their philosophy. Though our survival was clearly not preferable to death, we

 Enter the Kingdom

6

Companions acquiesced gratefully to the network that professed to provide physical and
spiritual sustenance. But prayer by prayer, the Soldiers of God crept from comfort to
coercion, forcing us to comply with their crusading Christianity, their compulsory worship
circles and structured life.
I suspect Augusta puts drugs in our food because she is always in the kitchen at
mealtime, prodding and poking at the seasonings and ingredients in dust-shrouded jars and
canisters – the precious salt, coriander, vegetable oil, pinto beans, and masa harina. I eat
only when on kitchen duty, swiping food before Augusta touches it. We are all wisps,
living wraiths, thinner than shadows, forever hungry.
Surely, Flavia supplements Augusta’s coercion by using subliminal suggestions, for
she constantly mutters at us under her breath. Or are these utterances her prayers? She
monitors our movements and our rare conversations, sneaking away to write reports in her
dimly lit office. Her sagging door is perpetually ajar. I’ve peeked through the space to see
her sitting and scribbling like mad, a shrunken, narrow lump of putty on her chair of
cracked black leather. She whispers to herself even when alone. “They are caught, caught,”
she says, a limp smile dangling from her bland face like a dead flower petal. “May Jesủs
forgive them.”
The younger women regard Flavia and Augusta as Companions, and they curry favor
with the cousins by professing how much they love Jesus. I love Jesus, but I also love other
enlightened teachers: Buddha, Mohammed, the high lamas of Tibet, the indigenous
spiritual guides and healers who once walked among us – where are they now?
Despite our ploys to negotiate with misery, we find little joy. We are ruin and

 Enter the Kingdom

7

misfortune personified. Our ages vary between fifteen and twenty-five; at forty, I am an
elder, an anomaly. The youngest and oldest victims of the Catastrophe had no will to live,
dying literally of broken hearts. Mothers’ breasts cooled and dried like the frozen ash that
entombs our world. Infants sickened and wasted away in the first mind-numbing months
after the Catastrophe. We have no birth, no creative spark, and no bliss.
The puzzle of our survival sands our minds raw. We cannot save ourselves because
the outcome of our tiny lives is unreal and impossible. Our world is tenuous, uncertain, a
crazy quilt of gaps, confusion, and loss, punctuated by the Soldiers’ demands. We parcel
our lives in a flow of meaningless tasks: excavating and insulating Augusta’s house,
searching for food caches in the rubble of markets and homes, collecting what little
firewood still exists in the ruins of the high desert forests, burying the unburied. As the
long weeks of labor unfold into months, systems develop. Flavia announces that
Companions may each leave the house one at a time to Tour – to wander the shadowy and
ash-filled neighborhood like tourists, to spend our time as blithely as we formerly dashed
about spending pocket change, our staycation in hell. I have seen enough Out There, and I
sign the mandatory form on Flavia’s clipboard with trepidation.
Flavia wakes me early the following morning – I only know it is early because the
dark around us is heavier, more silent than the hours when the sun tries to wash through the
heavy cloud cover.
“Your request for Tour is approved.”
My stomach hardens into rock at this lie. It is a requirement, one dreamed up by the
Soldiers of God. Finally, in the dim, formless afternoon, the oldest Soldier I’ve ever seen,

 Enter the Kingdom

8

almost my age, guides me to the electric quad dedicated to Jesus in a text scrawled with
house paint along the sides. The quad whirs almost silently along a trail winding from
Augusta’s hardscrabble adobe dome to the half-buried ruins of the Prescott Courthouse
Plaza.
Three times we circle the plaza in a gray drizzle of gritty snow that matches the
Soldier’s dirty white robes. The silent Soldier is as much in awe of the listless ruins as I,
and I’m grateful for his silence. I’ve heard that the Soldiers who Signify, who recite their
tired dogma during Tour, are like chattering monkeys who have no respect for tragedy. I
can barely see this Soldier’s hand upon the steering wheel, but it seems sliced with scars
and wrinkled burns identical to those that map my face and body. I fancy he is the one who
found me, but I cannot know unless he speaks, and he never does.
As he pulls to the doorway of Zion Halfway House – halfway to death, halfway to
hell – a smudge of barely perceptible light, the slowly descending sun, disappears from the
dull, sack-like sky.

We Companions shrink from the tick of minutes, the elusive, rhythmic promise of a
future. We stop asking why we survive, stop uttering the names of our loved ones, though
we all had lives rich with family, plans, and purpose before the Catastrophe. I dare not let
myself think about the husband, daughter, son-in-law, and expected grandchild who did not
emerge from the ruins. I can barely recall my own life. Ironically, I was an environmental
scientist working to restore damaged ecosystems. Among the Companions is a young law
student, a nursing student, a prize-winning hairstylist, a guitarist, a library aide, a budding

 Enter the Kingdom

9

tattoo artist, and a high school freshman who will never know more than that limited life.
These identities are gone, our new lives as transparent as the fleeting dreams in which we
revisit our old selves.
On the day after my tour, the Companions flutter about before Evening Prayerful
Assembly like bright, silent birds in a forest of doom. Augusta and Flavia deliver bolts of
cloth donated by the Soldiers of God, pretending good cheer. We cover ourselves from
head to toe in the lengths of cloth, draping saris or biblical robes over sweaters, sweatpants,
and fleece pullovers, the male clothing that keeps us warm, another paradox in our twisted
lives. At least the Soldiers allow us color as they force us to mask our female anatomy. We
take comfort – preen even – in the mauves and cobalts, the emeralds and russets, calicoes,
paisleys, smeary batiks, and bright woolens salvaged from who knows where.
Flavia and Augusta swagger around in their colorful robes, tugging them tight over
dirty street clothes, then excuse themselves from the group.
Jackie, a sallow Asian waif, comes to life and twirls around to show off her wrap.
“How do I look?”
Bermuda, another corpse-like young woman who used to be heavy, pulls a pocket
mirror from a crack in the floor, her chocolate skin dangling in loose folds from her neck.
Yvonne, Bermuda’s tiny bone of a friend, holds her hand out after Bermuda stands
from her thin bedroll. Her golden, stick-like forearms dimple with goose bumps as she
holds the little mirror at arm’s length, trying to see her entire reflection.
“Where did you get that?” the Companions chirp. “Let me see, let me see.”
Even I, the stalwart Celtic recluse, join the sorority to primp and chat, secretly

 Enter the Kingdom 10

despairing at my patchy reddish hair, which is quickly turning dust gray and shorn into a
spiky crew cut. My dull olive eyes stare back at me with dark circles bruising the deep eye
sockets.
A chorus of soft giggles erupts in the bare-walled room as I stand in my geometric
print robe, all neon lines and angles. “Ooh-la-la, mija,” lesbian Mar croons, brushing a
hand through her close-cropped ebony hair, “look at Libby.”
I have not shared my birth name at Zion Halfway House because Coralie Dupré
Whittington is dead, her life unreachable, and sometimes I forget to respond to my
assumed name. While I rest on my haunches in a corner, the Companions rake at their
shorn hair with a broken comb, pinch pink circles in their thin cheeks, priss around in their
garments and take turns glancing one more time in the mirror. They talk openly for a
moment in unusually brash tones about the Soldiers of God. The voices echo in the empty
room, the wooden furniture gone, burned for warmth long ago. Then the Companions
recoil, whispering about what they might do next, peeking outside the room to see if Flavia
and Augusta are listening.
Then the gap between our vanity and our brutal life closes into silence once more.
After Receiving the Cloth, as the Soldiers describe it, we drone along, silent again for
many days except for the prescribed calls and responses at our Prayerful Assemblies. Jesus
lives, we live for Him. Life is Jesus, Jesus is Life.
During the next Sunday Assembly, an ordeal lasting hours, my name appears atop a
small, neat list on Flavia’s clipboard. Augusta turns it toward us. “A group of Reporters
will visit us today.” She speaks with bright, artificial cheer as though addressing a

 Enter the Kingdom 11

classroom of children. “Liberty, your Ascension Day has arrived.”
My heart pounds so hard it must be visible through my ribcage. Ascension Day. The
Soldiers have a way of turning lovely-sounding things upside-down.
“What happens on Ascension Day?” My voice pings through the room like sonar.
“As the Eldest Survivor, Libby, you have the great honor of being the first to Enter
the Kingdom. The Reporters will take you to the Eternal Sweat Lodge,” Augusta replies.
“When you are faint with the heat, you are wrapped in golden cords, taken from the lodge
and baptista – bap-tized in saltwater.” She raises her eyes to Heaven and crosses herself
with a rapturous expression more typical of a holy roller than a Catớlica. “Then you will be
burned on a cross to cleanse you of the Catastrophe and purify you like Jesủs.”
Flavia crosses herself and kisses her crucifix.
I stand in the back of the group, bow my head, and clasp my scarred hands in prayer,
the prescribed response when the Soldiers of God bestow an honor. Then I clench my fists
behind my back and pull my face taut with a brilliant, metallic rush of adrenaline. My heart
pounds so hard I fear it might burst.
The Companions kneel and clasp their hands in a semi-circle in front of me,
genuflecting beside their prayer cushions. The Zion Prayerful Assembly is electric with
tension, our suppressed emotions knifing through Augusta’s old formal living room toward
a three-dimensional floor-to-ceiling crucifixion sprayed on a mirrored wall in gold metallic
paint.
No one dares look at me, not even in the reflection.
Apparently, Ascension Day – “to Enter the Kingdom” – is a ceremony meant to

 Enter the Kingdom 12

appease God, who punished mankind with the Catastrophe, a torrent of fire and water. As
though it’s my puny fault God destroyed the Earth “despite his rainbow promise” as the
Soldiers proselytize.
What gain do they hope to make from this diabolical sacrifice? The knot of paradox
in my chest tightens – I want to live yet have nothing to live for.
The Householders look away, relieved to hear that only the Reporters – the snarky
Soldiers who gather information from Augusta and Flavia – are holy enough to witness the
Sacred Proceedings. Neither cousins nor the Companions will have to watch me die.
Flavia and Augusta cast their eyes downward. I want to rush at them screaming, to
tear out their lying eyes, but I restrain myself. I must conserve energy, consider my
options. Have I not wished to die nearly every moment since that silent man saved me after
the Catastrophe?
Five Reporters enter the Zion Halfway House moments later, implacable as Biblical
pillars of salt. They take their places on brocade cushions in front of the Golden Cross.
Their voices begin to rise and fall in the prescribed prayers that echo and then are absorbed
by the thick concrete and straw bale walls of Augusta’s house. Life is Jesus, Jesus is Life.
After Prayerful Assembly, I mingle freely with this handful of blue-robed men and
women as though death is a hospitable hostess. I even show the newest Reporter around
the living areas in the glare of the wind generator-operated light boxes that serve as our
sun. I suppress what is left of my emotion. If they notice any agitation, the Reporters will
respond with Prayerful Force.
With faux hospitality, Augusta directs all Companions not on Duty to finish

 Enter the Kingdom 13

watching a DVD we started yesterday while our guests wait to share our monotonous
lunch. The Soldiers of God ban all books except a few copies of “The Message” version of
the Christian Bible. They destroy the more numerous copies of other Bibles and all books
they deem unsuitable – everything, more or less. Yet, ironically and inexplicably, after
penetrating the rubble of the Prescott Public Library and the libraries of Prescott College,
Yavapai College, and Embry Riddle University with the mission of destroying the stacks,
the Soldiers bring us films that scald our eyes with images of a world we can barely
remember and will never experience again. The written word seems to threaten their
authority, but these stories, these dream-like images of flickering light are used to further
subdue us.
The seconds and minutes dissolve and reform like the screen images we watch.
Neither time nor these stories have any substance. The Companions lean forward, watching
this thriller film with slack jaws. It features a man on the run, an escapee evading
government agents. He flees through red rock country, a moody, russet desert similar to the
high desert plateau we live in. Or used to be, before ash buried the spires and steeples of
“God’s country,” as many residents referred to the natural wonders of Yavapai County.
The term God leaves a bitter taste in my mouth – why would a Creator destroy His or Her
Creation? No wisdom being would do so, but . . . nature, karma . . . everything, after all, is
impermanent . . .
The film and my date with the Kingdom awaken a fierce seed of rebellion that has
lain dormant in me. While the others silently stare at the final credits and Roman date on
the screen, I list aloud the natural and domestic flora that used to thrive here, ticking them

 Enter the Kingdom 14

off on my fingers. I recall a world green with ponderosa pine and cottonwood, alligator
juniper and piñon, foxtail and sage, mariposa lily and desert marigold. I pass over my ten
digits many times over, trembling through my tears. Pulling my robe across my face, I
close my eyes and imagine the wildlife, the birds, the insects, sometimes recounting items
I’d almost forgotten. Javelina, pronghorn, jackrabbit, finch, stink beetle, nuthatch,
roadrunner, tarantula.
Every soft tap of finger on thumb calms me until a bright, soft feeling expands in my
solar plexus. I struggle to hold this nameless emotion, to make it swell inside me like a
thriving fetus. I gain strength from my thoughts and courage from the sacred landscape, the
memory of natural glories that vanished like a rainbow in summertime.
I close my eyes. My sense of self-preservation grows stronger. Though there is little
to live for, I do not want death on the Soldiers’ terms. I will not die today.
When the screen rolls back to the film menus, my Companions stare blankly at one
another, a huddle of zombies. I rise and pace about the dusty room. They are either afraid
to look at me, or unmotivated to disengage from the emotional residue of the film. The
Reporters wait in the dining room, jotting notes on pads and in a still-operable electronic
notebook. They watch us through the open entry of our Viewing Assembly, as they call the
old family room.
“It is almost time,” murmurs a lanky youngster, his hands moving from his robe like
long twists of dirty dough. His ragged beard moves up and down as he speaks.
“Another one past grief,” replies a female colleague, a soft violet scent rising from
the blue headscarf that covers the shaved head all Soldiers bear.

 Enter the Kingdom 15

Augusta emerges from the kitchen where the stone-like walls are never free of graywhite volcanic dust. “Prayerful Meal is served,” she says in the prescribed manner. “Break
bread.”
We Companions stand, drawn toward the scent of canned stew. Our blank lives and
hunger drive us to small pleasures.
Flavia moves to the head of the long oval table and motions to the stew and freshly
made tortillas. “Por favor, take comida with us,” she murmurs in Spanglish, the private
tongue of choice among many Companions in our cloistered community. Her cheeks
redden when she realizes her lapse of protocol. The Reporters glare at her yet say nothing
about the English-only rule.
I see no one looking as I shuffle behind the group entering the dining room. Big
Augusta seats herself with the women at the table, already stuffing her wide mouth with an
unbuttered tortilla, our daily staple. Slipping toward the double doors just past the dining
room, I hold my breath. There should be no problem walking away because no one ever
has. I ease outside, take a deep breath and jog down the dim, floury lane excavated by the
Soldiers of God on a pockmarked asphalt cul-de-sac, a dead-end sliced into a tract of open
land heaped with ash. Then I slide like a shadow between indeterminate tall and squat
shapes of buried granite boulders and the toothpick remains of burned trees.
A voice, some crazy thought buzzes in my cranium. Did it say I am one of Earth’s
last links? I’ve heard this small voice before, long ago, in my childhood. It wraps around
me like a vine’s tendril, a living, growing thing, but my agitation is too great to recall the
circumstances.

 Enter the Kingdom 16

“Last link to what?” I ask aloud. My voice sounds wispy in the open air. The fine
volcanic dust kicked up by my feet makes me cough. I wrap my robe tighter around my
mouth and nose.
Coralie, the voice murmurs. It must be my own mind calling my birth name, a pretty
name from an aborted life.
By saving yourself, you will halt humanity’s habitual tendency to destroy itself.
Transformation and reconciliation must begin anew, the voice concludes.
I trudge onward, but the luxury of so many words strung together like pearls of sound
overwhelms me. Surely this elaborate, lofty thought is not my own.
Choose life, the voice urges.
My mind is tired, almost empty, but it dredges up some random image of a twisted
old apple tree in bloom, as though to illustrate the thought.
This thought I trust. I have indeed chosen life, hoping it will protect me, though it
remains to be seen how long I can survive in a death-filled world.
A scrabble of footsteps echoes behind me. I step behind a twisted heap of pumice and
gaze back. Augusta follows a big Reporter clutching a dog-eared Bible, she with a big
shotgun poised like a saber in her chapped hands.
I change direction, plod forward, consumed by fatigue. Perhaps they will tire of
following me, choose someone else to die in my place. Why not? Augusta said I am the
first – that means the other Companions will Enter the Kingdom too. There was a time I
felt I’d go to hell for such a thought, but all life is hell now.
I stretch my legs over another mound, brushing away the light crust of snow and

 Enter the Kingdom 17

gritty ash with the hem of my wrap. Beneath the ash are boulders of golden granite and red
sandstone that seem almost alive. I then see why the Soldiers of God would pursue an
escapee through this death-choked desert, the reason they fool themselves with their
charade of subservience to God.
I bleed. I love. I give. I am crimson to their grey-white and pastel blue. My unruly,
authentic life is a brilliant contrast to their stark, rational, and lethal politics.
What do the Soldiers of God really want to annihilate? The small voice intrudes with
answers and I strain to listen. Striving for truth. Lack of ego attachment.
After a pause, it hums through me again: A womb is a vacuum of freedom. A space to
create liberation as well as life. If you are free, it says, if you resist fearful thought, then
you can free others. Your spiritual offspring will not recycle the same grasping concepts.
You should not die like Jesus nor should you die for Him.
I hold my head high with resolve. I will live for Spirit, and Spirit will live in me.
“¡Liberty, alto!” Augusta calls once. Her raspy voice echoes like a tired revelation
across the dead landscape.
I glance back at the tiny cross flaming like a kitchen match in the distance, circled by
figures in blue and white robes.
“Coralie,” I shout back, hurrying now to scramble up the face of a craggy, firescarred knoll toward the sun, the barest smudge of pink on a murky horizon.


