The last notes of the little dance band’s final song hung in the air as the musicians began
to pack up their things. A few couples who clearly didn’t want the night to be over just
yet clung to one another and continued to move across the smooth floor. Grace, the
pianist, approached her husband, Art, as he was arranging his drumsticks in their case and
beginning to remove the cymbals from the drum set.
“It’s hard to believe this is the last time, isn’t it?” Grace asked, keeping an eye on the
floor.
“It’s time,” Art replied simply. “We helped these folks through the hard times in the war,
and we helped them celebrate when it was done. They needed something to make them
forget their troubles for awhile, and by God’s providence we were able to give it to them.
Now it’s time for us to step down. They’ll always have music and dancing, but our style
isn’t what most of them want anymore.”
Art looked up from his drums to see Ed approaching. Ed had been a part of this little
eight-piece combo from the beginning. He was the vocalist for the standard and Big
Band songs, the caller for the square dance numbers, and he played the concertina for the
old-world waltzes and polkas. “Well, Ed,” Art called to his old friend. “This about
winds things up for us, doesn’t it?”
“I guess it does,” Ed replied, turning toward the folding chairs lining the walls, where his
wife, Emma, was sitting, with an apron she’d been embroidering lying across her lap.
Emma didn’t always attend the band’s performances; six of her eleven children still lived
at home, and she always had something to do. She made the aprons in what little spare
time she had, and the local J.C. Penney store sold them on consignment for her, so she
constantly felt the need to meet a quota. But tonight was different; tonight was special,
and she wasn’t going to make Ed go through it without her support. “Emma came along
to help us close down the show,” Ed commented, still watching her. "She brought along
one of the grandchildren because she promised a few weeks ago that she’d baby-sit
tonight. I suppose we could have left Elaine home with Ruthie and Marie – they’re old
enough to watch their little nieces and nephews now – but that little toddler just loves
music, and Emma knew she wouldn’t be any trouble. That’s her out there, talking to the
little boy over by the coat racks. Isn’t he one of your grandsons?”
“Sure is,” Art replied proudly. “That’s Danny, Marilyn's oldest.”
“He’s how old now? Four?”
“Almost. He’ll be four in July. And your little Elaine there, she looks to be about two?”
“She just turned two, about a week before Christmas. They grow up so fast, don’t they?”
“Too fast,” said Grace, joining the conversation. “And before you know it, they’ll be
listening to that new rock-‘n’-roll stuff and they won’t care two licks about the music
their grandparents have been playing for years.”

Danny was doing his best to carry on a conversation with little Elaine. She was a quiet
child; but warmed by his friendliness, she found herself smiling and trying to appear
more grown up than her two years would quite allow. As she walked with him and tried
her best to look at him when he spoke to her, she didn’t pay a great deal of attention to
where she was going, and before too long, she tripped over a large rubber boot
underneath the coats, and sprawled onto the hardwood floor. Before she had a chance to
untangle herself and regain her dignity, Danny reached out a hand to help her back onto
her feet. “Don’t worry,” he said gallantly, “I’ll take care of you.” And he led her back to
her grandmother, who nodded and smiled her thanks.

Not all that many years later, in the whole scheme of things, but a lifetime from the
perspective of two small children, Danny had been all over the world. His father, an
army sergeant, had been stationed first in New Orleans and then in Germany for four
years; the family had accompanied him and lived off-base in the little communities near
the post. Upon their return to the states, they’d spent a few years in Texas, until a
medical condition had caused an early retirement and the family found themselves back
in their Wisconsin hometown.
Elaine, meanwhile, had become a Girl Scout, and now it was cookie-selling season. This
was the 1960s, when small-town children could still safely walk the streets and sell their
fundraising items door-to-door, without adult supervision. Elaine knew the streets
around her neighborhood, but she wasn’t acquainted with the people who lived in most of
the houses. The residents of those area homes on this particular Saturday afternoon were
generally very cordial, and when they saw her green Beanie and knew she was taking
orders for cookies, most were quite welcoming. Elaine climbed up onto another front
porch, this one just a block away from South School and next-door to the local soda pop
factory, and rang the bell.
Most of the people who had answered the doors had been housewives with dust cloths in
their hands, or trailing vacuum cleaners in their wake. But Elaine was somewhat taken
aback at this house, when the door was opened by a smiling boy with dark, wavy hair,
who appeared to be in about seventh grade. “Hello,” he said graciously. “I see you're a
Girl Scout. Why don’t you come on inside where it’s warm and I’ll go get my mom to
order some cookies?”
“I can wait out here; that’s okay,” Elaine replied uncertainly, looking at a face that
seemed familiar although she knew she could never have seen it before now. “I don’t
want to track up your floors.”
“Don’t be afraid of that,” the boy persisted, opening the door wider and giving a
welcoming swoop of his arm into the room. “I know my mom will want a lot of cookies
because we have a big family. So this might take awhile.” It seemed to Elaine that the
boy was studying her with a vague sense of recognition, as well, and his smile never

wavered as his eyes seemed to pierce her own. “She’s in the kitchen; I’ll bring her out
here. Don’t worry,” he winked as he disappeared into the next room, “I’ll take care of
you.” And shortly after he and his mother returned, Elaine’s order had increased by nine
boxes.

Elaine was adapting well to high school. The ’70s had arrived, and she felt their energy.
During the third quarter of her sophomore year, her friend, Donna, approached her at
lunch one day and said, “Come with me a minute; I have a senior I want you to meet.”
The two girls walked down the quiet corridors that led to the music rooms, where a
smiling boy with dark, wavy hair was tuning a tympani. “Here she is,” Donna said
simply when the boy looked their way. “This is Elaine.”
“Hi, my name is Dan,” the boy replied, extending his right hand. “Donna said she knew
a blonde I might want to get to know.”
“Oh, really?” asked Elaine, unable to think of anything else to say, never before having
been put on the spot in quite that way. She looked toward Donna, who had backed off
slightly.
“I just think you two would hit it off,” Donna said, by way of explanation. “I’ve known
you both for quite awhile now, and it seems like you should get acquainted.”
“I’m safe,” Dan said, smiling in a way that allayed any fears Elaine may have been
feeling. “Don’t worry; I’ll take care of you.” And with that, he took her pile of books
and walked her to her next class.

The distance was narrowing, and every eye in the building was on Elaine. The pastor had
just asked who was giving this woman to be joined to this man; and now, as her father
responded, it was time for her to let go of his arm and take Dan’s to walk the rest of the
way to the front of the church. Dan approached her with a smile, looking very handsome
in his navy Dress Blues, and began to escort her to their places before the pastor. He felt
Elaine’s uncertainty in the stiffness of her arm and in her measured gait as she let him
lead her forward. But he knew they’d been born for this moment, and he wanted to ease
her qualms. So as the music swelled, he tilted his head toward hers and whispered softly,
“This is our day. Don’t worry; I’ll take care of you.” And he led her toward the spot
next to their witnesses, where they would begin their new life together, from that day
forward.


