The cat hadn’t bothered with Fidencio in almost eight years
and Letty didn't notice what Gabs had done until she managed to
maneuver into bed. And, even then, not right away.
Before bed, Letty lit the Virgin Mary candle on her altar,
touched the blue crystal to her lips, and eased down to her
knees to say her prayers in Spanish. These days she mostly spoke
in English, as there were more gringos than ever living on the
border. Letty didn't mind so much; they were, for the most part,
respetuoso. Even the newcomers learned to say Gracias, and most
of the Winter Texans mastered De nada as well. Letty’s Spanish
was reserved for private times, or when the English version of a
conversation would only serve to confuse gringos who couldn’t
understand the old ways. Some of the old ways held tight in this
high-tech world; not merely because they were traditions, but
because they were powerful, mágico.
The Mal de ojo. Letty had been an eyewitness to that curse
since childhood, far more times than she could recall. She knew
if the spell was caught soon after being inflicted, simple human
touch could evaporate it like a trail of smoke from a candle.
But if the curse lingered long enough to set its roots, snaking
into its victim, a curandero would be summoned to oust the

1

malice. With words mumbled so low they hummed, the curandero
would pass a raw egg over the body of the afflicted person, and
the egg would absorb the negative energy. That same night, the
curandero would tuck the egg and a cross made of straw under the
poor soul’s pillow. In the morning, he would crack the egg and
peer into it like a psychic’s crystal ball. Then the curandero
would know if his exorcism was successful.
This magic had not worked with Fidencio, not on the
diabetes or the gangrene. But neither had the gringo’s medicine
worked. The death certificate indicated sepsis had killed him–
her poor husband with no feet. Letty knew this conclusion was
only half the truth, but the gringos didn’t want to know about
the reality of his death—about what she had done.
Tonight, Letty’s knees hurt as she prayed at the altar
Fidencio had built for her over 50 years ago. Chunks of missing
wood marred the legs where her husband had begun to carve
flowers. He had stopped this adornment after coming to Letty for
bandaging and then announced decorative woodworking was a waste
of valuable time.
Suficeientemente Bueno.
Whenever Fito said this, Letty knew he was finished with
the task at hand. She didn’t mind the rustic look of the
incomplete altar, but she hated that it was too tall, leaving
2

her staring at its edge rather than the Virgin when she knelt to
pray.

Many times, she had asked Fito to shorten it, but his

reply was always the same, Manana. So many tomorrows. And at
last, Suficeientemente Bueno.
Letty finished praying the rosary on her throbbing knees,
Ahora y en la hora de nuestra muerte. Amen. Then she let Jesus
know of her suffering in English because Jesus looked like a
gringo to Letty. She was glad Our Lady of Guadalupe wasn’t so
blanco. That was the version of Mary which hung in a gold frame
behind her altar, surrounded by the cerulean blue wall,
reminding Letty of heaven.
“Oh, my poor, poor knees. My aching back! Jesus, deliver me
from my pain.”
But Jesus didn’t whisper back to her that night, as he
sometimes did—as he had that night with Fito eight years ago,
advising her how to end his suffering. But tonight, without a
heavenly response, Letty conceded her pain was yet meant to be,
still a part of God’s plan for her. She would ask for a miracle
again tomorrow.
Letty held onto the altar and rose to her feet, leading
with the good knee, which wasn’t so good. She was thirsty from
all the praying but didn’t dare drink a drop after 7 p.m., or
she would be up and down all night. Worse, she might not make it
3

to the toilet. That would be unbearably shameful. Even the
thought of this flushed her face.
At last, Letty sat on the bed and carefully positioned her
glasses on the nightstand in case she needed to reach for them
in the dark.

She turned off the lamp before swinging her

swollen legs onto the sinking mattress, using a loud groan to
fuel this last major muscle movement of the day. As she lay her
head on the pillow, she wished Buenas Noches to Fidencio, to
whom she always spoke in Spanish.

Fito had protested when Letty studied English soon after
they were married. He claimed to speak only Spanish out of
loyalty to his ancestors, but Letty suspected parts of his brain
didn’t work well enough to grasp a second language. She
attributed this to his near drowning as a baby in his mother’s
knapsack. His mother had crossed at Progreso, keeping sight of
the bridge. Since the Rio Grande was low that year, she needed
to swim only a short distance while clutching her Styrofoam
float. As Fito told the story, over and over again, his mother
was carrying so much on her back she didn't feel his sack come
undone. When she reached the riverbank, she turned to see the
drifting baby bundle. Dropping her things, Fito’s mother rushed
back to save him. Poor Fidencio was floating face-down. It was
4

then the angels carried him back to shore and breathed life into
him. Letty wondered if the angels were fellow crossers or border
patrol, but she never dared to question the identity, or legal
status, of the angels.

Tonight, Letty reached for Fito, as she did each evening.
He wasn’t where he should be. Instead, she put her hand into a
substance the consistency of partially mortared corn. Her first
thought was that she had spilled the talc, but she couldn’t
remember using it anytime recently. The second thought slammed
into her, and she bolted up to a sit. Fidencio had been spilled!
“Oh, my Lord, Jesus, no!”

After his death and cremation, Fidencio had not rested even
a night in the brass companion urn engraved with both their
names. Letty needed him close to her and had emptied the
cremains into an over-sized Ziploc bag and squeezed out the air.
To give him a softer place to rest, she wrapped him into a dish
towel, and lay him on the pillow next to her own. Letty had
intended to make him a better resting pouch, with a zipper to
secure him in place. She had gone to the fabric store, even
picked out a quilted material printed with angels, baby blue

5

with yellow-gold halos. But while she stood in line for the
clerk to cut the fabric, Fito’s voice had crept into her head.
¿Por qué estás perdiendo el tiempo en tonterías?
She didn’t know why he thought it was nonsense. Perhaps he
was contented resting in a plastic bag. As she contemplated, he
spoke again.
¿no tienes nada mejor que hacer?
Of course, she had better things to do. There was the
gardening, and she hadn’t done her dishes since the Meals-onWheels woman had brought her food last Friday. Letty could never
remember that dear woman’s name, so she used an acronym and
called her Mow. Three days of dishes waited in the sink covered
with a dishcloth to discourage bugs.
Her husband interrupted again. ¿Qué hay de la obra de Dios?
Letty had tried God’s work. For years, she had collected
food for Our Lady of Perpetual Sorrow’s pantry, and each
Christmas she picked a family’s name from the holy tree and
shopped for presents. When school supplies went on sale, she
filled a shopping cart with donations for needy school children.
Somehow it had all fallen out of her hands after Fito died, and
Letty had grown tired of God’s work. Besides, Fito hadn't been a
particularly religious man; he accompanied her to church only on
6

Christmas. Never on a Sunday. So, Letty wondered why he brought
God into the matter of sewing a fitting resting pouch. But she
let it be, let him rest for eight years wrapped up in the dish
towel.

Sitting upright in her bed, Letty's heart throbbed in her
chest. How could Fito have come undone?
She scrambled for her glasses, but in her angst knocked
them to the floor. The lamp listed as she reached for it in the
dark, but Letty clutched onto the base with both her shaking
hands and finally, shed some light on the situation.
Letty prayed as she retrieved her glasses and eased then
onto her face, “Help me, sweet baby Jesus.”
There was Fito, all ground up, padded into the sheets,
dusting the pillowcase. Gabby lay stretched out, neck extended,
rolling softly into the ashes while playing with shredded bits
of plastic bag, her head making a pillow of the dish towel.
Letty’s breathing became audible and she waited for chest pains
to commence, praying loudly for her salvation between gasps for
air.
“Dios te salve, Maria. Llena eres de gracia.”

7

Letty’s heart raced, but not sufficiently to remove her
from this predicament. Her heart slowed. Letty was thirsty, but
she didn’t dare get a drink. Should she call the kids? How could
she explain sleeping with their father’s ashes which should have
been in a place of honor on the mantle he built from a mesquite
tree?

She and Fito had planted that mesquite tree, and it had
sprawled its twisted branches across the yard, its tiny leaves
dropping like confetti when the scorching summer released its
relentless grip. In time, the borers had gotten to the tree,
eaten into the branches until they dried up and crashed to the
earth one by one.
When Fito passed, Letty had made their children promise to
mix her ashes with his before planting them both in the garden.
It had been Fito’s garden, not her’s. He had selected the
vegetables and herbs, and directed their planting, but held her
to the upkeep. Fito had not felt the earth in his fingers or
coaxed out weeds or smelled the steaming earth after a longawaited rain.

After he died, Letty planted only catnip and

cilantro, which didn’t take much tending. For a few years, the
tomatoes came, having reseeded themselves, but she didn’t much
care for tomatoes and left them for the birds.
8

Letty surveyed the desperate situation. The cat was covered
in her husband, as were the sheets. Letty hadn’t been making her
bed, so the serape, bunched up at her feet, had been spared. She
needed to save as much of Fidencio as possible. The bedclothes
could be rolled up, but she wasn’t sure how to detangle her
husband from Gabby. Brushing the cat seemed the best option, and
she hobbled into the bathroom for the brush. At the sight of it,
the cat leapt from the bed, dust poofing into the air like
tortilla flour. After several minutes of cautious pursuit—here
kitty, here kitty—Gabby scampered out of the cat door.
That part of Fito was gone.
Letty collapsed into her husband’s La-Z-Boy. She was in his
lap, and he wrapped his arms around her. He whispered she was a
good woman. Muy Buena. He had said that to her on birthdays and
mother’s days, and sometimes New Year’s Eve after tamales, beer,
and fireworks. Letty dozed in her husband's embrace, her
breathing shallow and heart rate decelerating. It was the next
morning when the phone in the pocket of her fire-red and gold
embroidered nightdress buzzed loudly. Fito melted, and the chair
grew large around her. She had missed the call from her daughter
in LA, the girl her husband would frequently proclaim had made
something of herself.
9

Y nos envía dinero. No nos olvida.
Maria hadn’t always been his favorite, but when his son
disappointed him, Fito made a show of exalting his daughter and
disparaging Jose. At those times, Letty felt compelled to defend
her Jose, but she knew better. Fito was looking for a fight that
wouldn’t end unless she surrendered and agreed (without
conviction) that Jose was of no use.
Fito prohibited Maria from phone conversations with her son
who, just before graduating from high school, had fled to
Guatemala to escape incarceration, flush the drugs, clear his
head, and find his path. Jose hadn’t intended become a volcano
guide for American tourists, donning an accent that wasn’t his.
And he hadn’t intended to stay on and on. He remained even after
Fito became ill, even after the construction business, built
from nothing, had to be sold well under-market. With no family
to run the family business, Fito lost his legacy.

Letty knew her daughter would call back. She moved to the
living room where she could admire the picture of Maria in her
graduation gown as they talked.
Letty placed the phone on her lap and waited.

10

Maria’s love was organized, practical, and prompt. She
called Letty every day on her lunch break; asked what her mother
was doing, what she had eaten, and what she planned to eat for
dinner. As much as Letty found this part of the conversation
tedious, she loved what came next. When it was Maria’s turn to
tell, she would talk about work. Litigation, arbitration,
defamation, habeas corpus. Letty kept a growing vocabulary list
on the side table. She didn’t care so much what it all meant;
what she loved was hearing the energy and passion in her
daughter’s voice. Letty picked up the buzzing phone.
“You okay Mamá? You didn’t answer, and I got worried.”
“Yes, mija. I only was asleep.”
Without waiting for Maria’s interrogation, Letty reported
she had huevos rancheros for breakfast and planned to make
chicken flautas for supper. But neither was true. How could she
eat with Fito scattered about the house? Maybe toast later and
Marie Calendar for dinner. Salisbury Steak or Fettuccini
Alfredo. She hadn’t decided.
“But tell me of your day, Mija.”
“Mamá, the judge was hysterical this morning. She threw
some guy out of the courtroom for smacking his gum too loud!
Told him to chew his cud in the field with the cows. Then the

11

judge said it was the most disgusting habit on earth. I could
have peed my pants Mamá.”
Letty laughed with Maria, but her heart ached with
longing. She didn’t dare ask Maria to come home and help with
the mess Gabby had created, but she missed her daughter.
“Are you sure you’re okay Mamá?”
“Just missing your Papá today.”
After the call, Letty rolled the sheets tightly together,
bound them with kitchen twine, and placed them in a plastic
trash bag. She tied the ends while squeezing out the air and put
the bag into her most beautiful flowered pillowcase. Letty
remade her bed, laid the Fito pillow next to her own and climbed
in next to her husband. The cat joined Letty in the bed and
repeatedly flopped on top of Fito, liking the muffled crunch of
the plastic bag beneath before kneading it into her resting
place.
“Oh Gabby, what trouble you have made for us.”
Letty gently massaged the cat’s forehead with her
fingertips, and the cat purred music into Letty’s dreams of her
husband. But it was the angry man dreams that came to Letty that
night. Fito was red in the face, teetering on his stumps,

12

shaking his finger and accusing her of desecrating his remains.
Worse yet, he shouted at Letty about her unkept promise.
¡No hiciste lo que prometiste!
When she woke, Letty tried to explain she couldn’t have
kept that promise; it was a mortal sin. But she knew Fito would
never let her rest in peace.
Because Gabby had scattered tiny bone fragments and dust
particles everywhere in the house, Letty couldn’t bring herself
to vacuum or mop. She knew the AC was circulating Fito, knew she
was breathing in tiny particles of him.

And Letty couldn’t be

sure if it was ordinary dust, or Fito, in the spaces between the
floorboards, so she didn’t sweep either. She walked softly
around the old house in her socks and didn’t wash them. Instead,
Letty put them in a wicker basket under her altar with as much
reverence as she could give worn socks.
In another three weeks, Letty was out of socks. When she
shopped for them at the dollar store, she also purchased a
zippered pillowcase and put it under the one with the purple
flowers. After the shredding incident, Letty didn’t trust Gabby
and wondered why, after so many years, the cat had attacked
Fito.

13

Gabby and Fito had gotten along well when she was a kitten,
but after a year, Gabby began to hiss at him and run from him.
This change in her behavior came immediately after Fito told
Letty the cat broke her leg falling from the mesquite tree. He
had wrapped Gabby’s leg between two halves of a paint stick, Los
animales mejoran o no – because didn’t believe in doctors for
pets. When Letty noticed the claw marks etched into the backs of
Fito’s hands, she prepared a calendula salve for them both. Each
night she circled the blue healing crystal over Gabby’s body
until the cat could no longer be caught. At least, she thought,
the shiny stone worked well on animals. Fito wasn’t convinced
the crystal could cure anything, but he wouldn’t risk offending
it, so about that, he stayed quiet.
After the doctors took his feet, Fito didn’t believe in
doctors for people either. Finally, he allowed the hospice
nurses into the house to check his vitals and change the sheets,
but he wouldn’t see a doctor. His moaning increased in volume
whenever the nurses were present, and they gave him the sympathy
he desired. Letty was grateful as her own empathic responses had
diminished considerably, despite her efforts to emulate the
Blessed Mother.
The nurses also left comfort kits, which included liquid
morphine, morphine suppositories, and medications for nausea and

14

constipation, but Fito didn’t want the gringo’s medication.
Still, he told Letty to collect the kits in case he someday
couldn’t manage the pain on his own. This was one of the few
times Letty deceived her husband. When Fito would be out of his
head with stomach pain, she made strong herbal tea, which took
away his suffering and helped him sleep. He was used to her
bitter teas and tinctures, the Bricklebush, Eucalyptus, and
Malabar, which were supposed to cure his diabetes, but hadn’t.
Then came the night Jesus told her what to do. As she did
each night, Letty had served Fito tea and his pain had abated.
She watched him grow relaxed and tired and waited for his eyes
to close. But that night he called her to his side, telling
Letty to bring the chair and sit next to the bed. She brought
her crucifix as well and rubbed the dying Christ as Fito spoke.
Quiero que camines al cielo conmigo.
He told her they should be together, that she should walk
with him to heaven. Letty agreed, Sí. Someday she would. Letty
could see the tea was making him drowsy because the ever-present
creases between his eyes softened. His eyes grew glassy but
remained open and fixed.
La morfina de los kits, ¿dónde está? His voice was suddenly
urgent.

15

Letty told Fito she had saved the morphine as he wished,
but in reality, she had only saved the suppositories. The herbal
tea had been mixed with the liquid morphine each night. Fito
told her he was tired of the pain and was ready to die. She
nodded as he continued.
Moriremos juntos, como Romeo y Julieta.
This time Letty didn’t say Sí. How could he ask her to die
with him, to hasten his death and take her own life? Had the
sickness deranged his mind? Perhaps she had been giving him too
much morphine.
Letty shook her head. No Fito, no es possible. Dios no…
He did not let her finish, did not give her time to explain
that God would not permit suicide, and she would go to hell if
she took his life or her own. Fito tried to raise his voice, but
instead set off a raspy coughing episode. Letty trembled as he
continued to speak through sputtering, hacking, and gagging,
telling Letty they should die together, demanding she promise to
drink the morphine with him.
Prometeme! Tu propósito es estar conmigo.
Letty felt his barbed words piercing her tired heart. Did
Fidencio really believe she had no purpose on earth outside of

16

caring for him? She dropped the cross onto her lap and reached
for Fito, but he pushed her hands away and grunted.
There were so many times she had reluctantly acquiesced to
her husband’s wishes. She had obeyed when he told her school was
a stupid waste of time, when he said she could not go to Mexico
to visit relatives, could not buy clothes she wanted, and could
not have friends over. And even when he told her to work as a
cleaning lady for the gringos after Jose and Maria had left
home. Still, Letty knew he was a good man. Fito had never hit
her. He had provided for his children, and she had a beautiful
home. Her life was good.
With her hand covering her mouth, she promised to walk with
Fito to heaven. Sí prometo.
That night Letty heard from her savior while kneeling at
her alter. Jesus had whispered, in English, it was time to help
Fito out of his pain. Letty understood and made the sign of the
cross in acknowledgement, touching her head, then her chest, her
left shoulder, then her right. At the kitchen sink, Letty soaked
and steeped the suppositories, adding Bricklebush tea leaves.
Then she poured the hot mix into a mason jar and placed it
outside for the morning sun to cook.

Early the next evening,

she strained the liquid through cheesecloth, poured it into a
Talavera pitcher, and sweetened it with honey.
17

When Fito told Letty it was time for them to go to God
because his pain was unbearable, she brought two cups of tea and
sat beside him in the chair. She promised they would walk to
heaven together. As they drank, Letty prayed the rosary, moving
a bead with her thumb for each recited Hail Mary and Our Father.
Fito went to heaven alone that night, but Letty held his hand
until his dying breath and finished praying the rosary.
Te amo, mi esposo. Then she apologized for her falsehood
and vowed to join him when it was God’s plan for her. It wasn’t
her time. She hoped he would understand this now that he was
with Jesus.

The night the chest pains came, Letty lay her head on
Fidencio in the pillow and wrapped her silver-beaded rosary
around her hand. She prayed until her heart imploded, “Voy a
venir Fito.” Her body vomited bile onto the pillow and she peed
her bed, but she didn’t know these things. Gabby moved to sleep
above Letty’s head and play with her hair.

It was Mow, the Meals-on-Wheels lady, who discovered Letty
the next morning. She had found many of the expired elderly in
her dozen-plus years as a volunteer. These days she didn’t rush

18

to make the 9-1-1 call. She checked for a pulse, but it wasn't
necessary. Mow recognized death. She bowed her head and prayed
the Our Father. Then Mow looked for a memento. She knew the
family wouldn’t give her a thought, wouldn’t recognize she had
been a comforting presence for years. Mow wouldn’t take anything
valuable; she never did. She wasn't a thief and only sought a
remembrance, a token and reminder. She thought about unwinding
the rosary from Letty's hand but went instead to the altar.
The blue crystal lay at the feet of the Virgin Mary statue.
Mow slipped it into her pocket. It would look beautiful on her
altar, and she would pray for Letty's soul every night, like she
did the others. She was attending to death’s after matter.
Moe called 9-1-1, filled the cat’s bowls and let herself
out of the house to sit on the porch and wait for the ambulance.
Flying in from Guatemala, Jose arrived home just before
Maria. Together, Maria and Jose found the companion urn on the
mantle and, as it was empty, wondered where their father's ashes
were stored. Because the house was very dusty, and bedroom
smelled horrid, Maria hired a cleaning service. She would leave
three days later, immediately following her mother’s memorial.
Jose stayed and promised to oversee the reckoning, although
he thought about lingering a while longer. After retrieving his
mother's ashes from the crematorium, Jose carefully poured them
19

into the engraved urn. He had scoured the house for his father’s
ashes, but with no success.
The remains of Fidencio’s cremains had, unfortunately,
found their way to the county dump, still in the plastic bag
with the rolled sheets zippered in a cloth bag, and topped with
the pillowcase of purple flowers covered in dried bile. But that
was not all of him. When the cat left the house covered in Fito,
she went to the garden and rolled in the catnip Letty had
planted. Which is exactly where Letty was scattered by Jose as
he said his prayers—in Spanish.

20


