Adam lets himself into the empty and stale-smelling apartment, puts down his
things, goes to the balcony, looks down. Remembers the first time he was ever inside a
work of art, when he was eight and wandered into a two-by-two installation by a New
England artist his parents had bought and reassembled, near the huge kidney-shaped
pool at the family’s Hollywood, Florida estate, and how his mother ordered him
promptly to get out. Remembers how much being inside the installation, on his parents’
bespoke, landfilled property, felt like being on this balcony. The installation was a mock
kitchen, complete with walls that had windows, making him feel free and caged in, at the
same time.
Many years later, Adam’s mom warned him not to marry Renuka. His mother
always surprised him with her capricious San Francisco Nob Hill politics, same
sensibility that supported gay marriage, deplored the mass incarceration of black men,
had Asian-American best friends with whom she’d been in a book club for twenty years,
was effusive about the enchilada recipe given to her by Mexican neighbors, thought
Mississippi Burning and Biko were simplistic and inadequate stories about race, decried
the mandatory minimum in drug sentencing, voted for reparations for Native Americans
as well as former slaves. And yet Mom remained, one might say, cautious about the
challenges of long-term interracial couplings, when it came to her son.
“Darling, she’s never really going to let you in,” his mother said. “They can’t.”
Adam didn’t mind her. Mom was polite enough before their honeymoon and
during visits after that. Not only courteous but specific, personal. Asking about the

long-ago death of Renuka’s parents, the fragile health of her grandmother. Though
Renuka did not want to answer his mother’s questions.
Renuka’s abiding wish for privacy didn’t make Adam’s mother rude, or intrusive,
or any of the words that he could read on Renuka’s face. Not that Renuka down-talked
his own mother to him. It wasn’t even that she talked about his mother in a bad way to
her friends. More like her mind was fully occupied elsewhere.
Now Adam picks up his phone and looks at the number he tracked down from
their carrier by calling Verizon when Renuka stopped answering her phone. He’d told
them his wife was missing and might have gotten lost. They’d given him the last number
she’d called. Then Adam tracked down the address that went with the number, a motel
number in the New South, that Renuka had called while on the road.
This morning he’d flown from Miami to Charleston, South Carolina, where
Renuka had stopped to rest on her way to Miami two days ago. He knew she’d had to
stop there because she’d left him messages. She’d dropped everything in Baltimore to
drive a thousand miles, just to meet him. But when he called her back, early morning
yesterday, just after three am when he was drunk, Adam blurted out that he’d been
having the affair.
Then yesterday, all day, he’d pulled himself out of the clutches of a gruesome
hangover, calling Renuka perhaps a hundred times, realizing he had to come find her.
In the meantime, his wife evaded him. Taken the day to disappear, reverse her
course from Miami and for whatever reason, drive back to this tiny town, Santee, with
its ridiculous hydroelectric reservoir, as if to mock him and his fear of power plants.
From Charleston, Adam came back here, to Baltimore, taking a nonstop afternoon
flight, clocking the hour and a half with impatience, convinced that Renuka might even

be waiting at BWI airport.
The South Carolina motel was, Adam supposes, charming in its way. The darkhaired, brown-skinned guy with the ponytail who was cleaning out the pool when he
drove up – polite enough. But there was something about him, a hint of insolence in the
smile he gave Adam when he showed him the photograph of Renuka. The man
confirmed that she’d stayed there twice. Once on her way to Miami, then for a second
time on her way back, was all he said, maybe implying something more. She hadn’t
mentioned where she was going. “But she looked fine, man. Hundred percent fine.”
“Oh, fuck it, fine,” Adam mutters now, back in Baltimore remembering, wishing
that his own last-minute mistress was at least more adventurous, more capable, in bed.
He’d screwed up his marriage at age forty-one, first by the cheating, then, by
confessing his affair to Renuka, making her stray too – and all for what? Guatemalan
Indio Adelina was a woman he met working in a kitchen, during his part-time job as a
sous chef in three-Michelin star restaurant on Lancaster near the Baltimore harbor. The
girl often looked nervous at the sight of him naked. She’d never lost herself to pleasuring
him. Her eyes remained wide open and startled even long after the first time, during
which she had taken him by surprise too, since she’d been a virgin. She’d been eager to
lose her virginity, but that hadn’t made her a natural.
Adam’s sure that Renuka slept with that Cherokee guy working in the motel.
Many generations descended from warriors but humbled and ordinary now, by casino
lucre, by having nowhere else to build.
It’s not without excitement that Adam pictures Renuka with the dark indigenous
man. Like an erotic novel Adam had read once, the title of which he cannot remember,
where wealthy American men could pay to see tableaus of young brown Southeast Asian

men and women – really, boys and girls – bringing each other to climax with poise and
surety.
Renuka sleeping with someone else means the thing with Adelina must have hurt
her, and if she can be hurt by Adam’s affair and confession, she’s not indifferent. When
she called that Indian man, she’d been on her way to Miami, to reunite with Adam,
before he blurted out the things he’d done. She hasn’t called him since, but hasn’t for
certain shut him out. The money’s all still there, in their one joint account, and by
tomorrow, Renuka will have to report again to her job as a resident at the hospital.
And there is a beauty to it, isn’t there? His wife with the stranger. Adam
contemplates it now, like art – Renuka’s compact, exquisite, nude body alive, coated
with sweat, moving on the muscular brown man with excitement, the two of them
ecstatically immersed in the moment. If she did that, she must still be a creature of
desire, and Adam, confident, remembering that he is taller, in better shape, more
educated and elsewhere more impressive than that guy who works in the motel, smiles
now remembering Renuka’s libido on their honeymoon. If sex can still pull her like that,
all the way out of medicine, at last out of her preoccupation with responsibilities – well,
Adam has got this contest in the bag.
For a moment, the simplicity, the crudeness, of these emotional – calculations,
for lack of a better word - shames him a bit. But not for long. “It is simple,” he mutters,
the same words he’d used some seven years ago to his mother, over the phone, by way of
explaining why he was going to marry Renuka and no other.
Most of it is simple, but not all, he thinks now, drawing the balcony screen door
shut tightly behind him, so that cool air could enter through the mesh; opening up the
windows in the kitchen and living room and airing out the place, another part of his

mind pleasantly pondering what feasting dishes he might cook, what delicate morsels to
tempt her, so when his wife comes home, as she has to, there’s food in the freezer and
fridge for her to eat, for her to even take to the hospital with her for lunch when she goes
to work, so that he touches her body in that one trustworthy way, through food, without
Renuka swallowing her pride and asking him.
Adam had first wooed her using food. Not his own food – he’d played modest at
first saying his chef skills were still “under development.” Like waterfront real estate still
being developed, ha. No, he had taken her out for expensive dinners. There at a
cramped, but upscale table, he exulted in feeding Renuka. Spooned creamy sour cream
sorbet into her mouth, not telling her that he had helped the chef invent the recipe.
Renuka’s dark lips had been free of lipstick. Now Adam wishes he could remember more
details from the first night of their lives as lovers. All that was left was an image here,
there another, sometimes the two colliding when they came, preventing him from
savoring either one. Making Renuka elusive even in his mind. The flash of her hair
under the light. A thick blur of primitive silver at her wrist. Or just the brownness of her
skin, which by surfing and sleeping in the sun, Adam has tried for years to match or at
least come closer to being, but hasn’t yet.
2.
Adam’s plan for restoring the Everglades is this: take the ecosystem back to the
way it was not just before the 1940s floods, but before the attempts to drain the
watershed in the first place. Before the earliest disasters, when what was plentiful was
left to grow, riotous. When ways of living were developed in order to bend to the chaos.
In the 1830s, Confederate soldiers stumbled on the Everglades while tracking Seminole

warriors. Sawgrass and limestone bloodied the white Southern soldiers’ feet, even as
they hunted the Seminoles without remorse and killed them or forced them to clear out
of the land. To whites the Everglades were as impenetrable and unsettling as the
unsettled Congo. The long, rigid, exposed roots of mangrove trees, clawing at
swampland through the murky water, were portents to young white prospectors in
precarious canoes gliding through the Everglades. The hard roots looked like skeletal
hands that promised punishment for all the Indians they’d killed. Gunfire, even canonfire, in response to threats that might be sensed more easily than being seen, in all that
overgrown gloom, could be muffled by the swamp sounds. Haste and fear propelled
southern Americans’ promises, to convert the torrid landscape to temperate farmlands.
American soldiers who hated everything about the Everglades, according to letters
Adam read out loud to Renuka, copying passages from the originals in the Hopkins
libraries, moved thousands of Seminoles by force. They bore down on Seminole chiefs,
sometimes failing to force their people out. But soon enough their most determined
chiefs, like Aripeka, whom Adam’s grandfather’s dog was named after, were mostly
defeated, and eventually brown faces occupied the blank space marked on maps as
Indian Territory. Rice paddies, sugarcane plantations followed soon in Florida. Florida
with its Asian heat still used American slaves to work its plantations.
Adam was convinced that a real restoration would be to go back to before sugar
was king. Go back to the crops that the land knew. Corn, squash, beans, but also
fragrances, flavors, that Adam could imagine using in dishes he’d help to invent pumpkins, sumpweed, chenopodium, pigweed, knotweed, giant ragweed, canary grass,
amaranth, and melons. Bean vines winding themselves around corn stocks. At the
restaurant where Adam worked as a part-time, amaranth grain was cooked so it

resembled caviar and tasted like wheat berry, fresh-baked bread. Chenopodium was just
quinoa, now mainly from California but capable of feeding the region, supplying both
upscale and chain restaurants, if it was planted on the elevations alongside the Tamiami
Trail, a faux-“native American” name that just mashed up Tampa and Miami. And
canary grass, the meals for thousands upon thousands of birds, who disgusted the white
settlers for how abundant they stayed, even when the settlers brought down entire skies
of those dark birds.
The money to pay for the whole Everglades Recovery project was there, a straight
two billion that Adam’s parents had connections to. His grandfather had donated to Jeb
Bush’s campaign; his parents, to make up for it, donated to Michael Moore’s Fahrenheit
9/11 budget. But Adam physically resembled his grandfather very much, and so was a
favorite of the golfing man, who used the words “land development” to vow prosperity to
his descendants. A land developer himself, a robber baron of wet soil, with no trace of
shame, no hesitation despite the evidence, not even disputed by most Republicans, the
Teddy Roosevelt variety, that straightening out the Kissimmee River with canals
destroyed it in the 1970s.
When his grandfather died earlier this year, Adam dropped everything, begged
Renuka to come with him to Florida for the funeral.
Five months ago. Adam had flown alone to Miami then too. He hadn’t cheated on
his wife till he returned. But that was when it started, his dream of Miami, a dream that
excited and scared him, because it had no place for Renuka, who hadn’t gotten accepted
to any residency training programs outside Baltimore.
In Miami, Adam found heat and life and families. People pushing at each other
for space, talking excitedly, aggressive gestures turning into fast, laughing dances Adam

knew from going out salsa dancing after work sometimes with kitchen workers from the
restaurant he was interviewing at down there. It didn’t matter that Miami’s people were
overwhelmingly brown and he wasn’t. Renuka didn’t speak a word of Spanish, versus
Adam who was fluent, from the uniquely-effective combination of his junior year abroad
in Costa Rica and the tender way of talking that his Guatemalan nanny, Marta, had.
Marta, the descendant of Mayan lords, hadn’t been able to have children of her
own, despite her generous hips and ham-hock hands. Secretly sometimes, Adam was
glad that Renuka’s body hadn’t gone through the changes of childbirth, and so didn’t
resemble Marta’s pillowed, used-up body yet.
Renuka hadn’t come to the funeral either. But Marta’s family was there, the vital
branch of it that worked for his grandfather, ten or so women and men who did the
gardening, cleaning, cooking, upkeep of Grandpop’s entire mansion in Palm Beach and
also of the much smaller bungalow in Wynnwood, Miami, where Adam’s father used to
live, before he married Mom, and while still in his twenties, settled out West in SF. In
Wynnwood, his dad used his trust fund to support himself as assistant curator at a
gallery, buying up barrio art, using the Spanish he’d learned too, in undergrad, Harvard,
to learn about the edgiest Cuban and Dominican expatriate work long before any of it
got bought at Art Basel. The walls in Wynnwood exploded with candy colors. Their
murals contained huge dominating black-rimmed images like sanctioned graffiti.
Walking in Wynnwood late at night, eating fish tacos and drinking Coronas, to
escape the solemnity of the funeral and to not dwell on the money he’d receive, Adam
knew, rather than made a decision, to come back to Florida where his inheritance had
first been built. To stake a kind of settler’s claim in Everglades Recovery: to leverage
wealth and workers, science and faith, budgets and visions of a splendid past.

Of course, he’d never talk in those kinds of phrases. “It’s a cool thing to do,” is the
only thing Adam says, when asked ‘why eco-restoration? Why on earth paleo-geology?’
“A way to support life on this planet.” He talks about “collectives to restore the
Everglades” when what he yearns for is power.
Only a power that will be exerted justly. An artist’s autonomy, able to shape chert
and canary grass and water full of sludge from the river into a functioning, undamaged
whole. Able to reverse shameful results of developers who were blind, greedy and blind
to the life that teemed, ensnared and enchanted. The ancient life they thought they
could drain from the Glades, without understanding how to harness its power.
3.
Back in his element, washing fresh shrimp in the kitchen, then dicing onions on
reflex, never once needing to look at his own hands while they’re working, Adam feels
calm, methodical, so much so that the idea of compromise doesn’t even come up. When
Renuka comes home, for he has no doubt that she will, if she agrees to restore their
marriage, he thinks that yeah, they should, they definitely should, because they’re in
love and should be together.
Except she’ll have to move to Miami. Camp with him at the Everglades project.
Go to ECOMB and Sierra Club meetings in the city. There is no way around it.
And that will mean Renuka won’t have time to be a surgeon, fine. But would that
be so bad? She can take a year off, get pregnant, come back and finish residency in a less
exhausting field that will be better for her sleep than surgery.
That will be better for both their lives, and the planet.
Because what surgery could be for her, Adam’s convinced, is a distortion, even a

corruption, of her original feelings for medicine.
At first, when she got into medical school, Renuka was all about “milk of
kindness.” A certain tenderness persisted through all odds – the overbearing surgery
resident, the bullying Oncology fellow. She loved patients. Loved being with them as
healer. Adam is convinced she loves them still, beneath the regimes of surgery.
When she was a student, there wasn’t a poem about death and dying, a diagram
of human anatomy, even the crystallography images of DNA or the bold swirling,
shocking pink of the dye-stained cells of different types of tissue composing the body,
that she explained she had to memorize – there wasn’t a particle of medical training she
didn’t want to absorb whole-heartedly. In fact, at times it was quite breathtaking,
especially when they had first met. The naps she’d steal when he’d drive her and her
alone at night out to Half Moon Bay, so she would be fresh the next morning. The way
she stared at dunes of sand in the darkness, whispering to him that in her mind she
could see the slides of cells invisible in the ocean. All the cells sloughed off by swimmers,
thoughtless and proud, by surfers guided by an invisible discipline.
Now pasta is boiling, shrimp scampi simmering, the smell of his potion so
lingering and delectable, Adam’s own mouth is watering. He stirs the pot, tense, waiting
for Renuka to walk through the door. Glossy pamphlets printed on recycled paper, his
folders, his little glasses and the black notebook he carries, along with a silver pen –
these lie ready on the coffee table he built for this apartment, when they had moved in a
year ago, when they came here so Renuka could work at the hospital, to finish her
transitional year and apply to become a surgeon. When all they talked of were her plans.
When the food is completely ready, he’ll set the table the way he does at the
restaurant where he used to work. He won’t go there ever again, because it’s where he

began cheating on his wife. Temptation is there, the touch of others too easy.
Instead he will wait here for her, working from here on his part of the plan for
bringing back the glorious Everglades, staying here as long as it takes to persuade her.
From the pamphlets, Adam will read to Renuka like poetry: The geologic secrets
of the earth are visible to all who learn to recognize them. It is impossible to consider
the geology of the Everglades without also considering the hydrology. Primarily
consisting of limestone, the bedrock geology of Everglades National Park has
responded over time to the ongoing processes of weathering, erosion, compaction of
organic sediments…
Weathering, erosion – these won’t affect what they have built, he and his wife.
Adam has swum through marshes, fisted limestone rocks rich with coral. Collected
shells once used to ornament the hair of the Calusas, those who lived in the Everglades
aware of its submerged, prehistoric monsters, making monuments to them. Alert to
alligators who could drag him to the treacherous deep, Adam crunched booted feet on
long grasses that once had hidden Tequestas, hunters who lived on sea-wolves and
manatees lassoed from the sea, stoic warriors who worshipped a god of the graveyard.
All of those other Indians ghosts now, but Renuka his Indian, living, beautiful wife.
Adam calls her again on her cell phone. It goes to voice mail. But that’s because
she’s flying back to Baltimore. Coming home, returning to him. She has to be. She must.


