So, where should I even begin this story? I could walk us all the way back to my early childhood,
but that would be too much. Plus, it wouldn’t be pertinent or very exciting. Honestly, it would be more
embarrassing than anything else. But I also can’t just start with last year, that wouldn’t give any context
whatsoever. I guess that leaves me with the day I got in my accident in chemistry. No, this isn’t another
iteration of Barry Allen becoming the Flash, this is much slower and far stranger. You see, when I got
into my accident in chemistry during my tenth-grade year in high school, I didn’t expect to be on the
path I am on today.
My name is Daniel Ryker, and I am a demon hunter. That isn’t the way that I typically introduce
myself, but hey, you wanted to know my story. But again, I don’t want to linger too long on that just yet,
believe me; you will get your fair share of demon stories, I promise. I want you to join me in Ms.
Johnson’s tenth-grade Chemistry class at Coopersville High School, home of the Golden Eagles (can you
feel my eyes roll?) Coopersville High was a scene directly out of a high school teen/romance movie. We
had so many high-level athletes at CHS that division I college recruits and scouts basically had their own
lounge. You are probably wondering “Hey Danny,” you can call me Danny if you like, we are pretty tight
now. I mean with you knowing I’m a demon hunter and all. “Hey, Danny, what sport did you play in?
Does your athleticism help you in your demon slaying ways?”
Well, friend let me answer that for you. I was NOT an athlete of any kind. To put it realistically, I
was a self-proclaimed nerd, a dork even. I had the reaction time of a sloth and the dexterity of a
rhinoceros, with none of the size and strength. That probably explains why I was in Ms. Johnson’s
Advanced Placement Chemistry, ground zero of my whole ordeal. I wish there was an amazing story I
could tell you about how I created some advanced lifeform that attached itself to me and made me
stronger, faster, and whatever else you would need to hunt demons. But the truth is, I was being kind of

DANNY DEMON HUNTER
dumb. I breathed in a toxic mixture of chemicals and promptly died. Yup, I leaned over to grab my
notebook, took in a full dosage of death mist, and fell to the floor, clutching my throat.
It was, without a doubt, the most humiliating way to die. I wasn’t a “popular” guy or anything,
but the last thing going through my mind as my world grew dark and cold was how preventable this
whole thing was. Here I was, the “smartest guy in school,” and I was killed by a science fair project that,
by the way, wouldn’t have landed me a Nobel Prize. Nope, I would have, AT BEST, received a blue ribbon
and my picture in the back of the yearbook. So yeah, as a guy that lived his life a little dorky, I hoped that
if I died in a tragic chemical accident that it would be trying to end world hunger or something. Not
make a chemical compound that kept floors cleaner.
I can already feel your next question coming, “Daniel,” I expect you are hesitant to call me a
friend now, “How are you talking to us right now? Are you a…ghost?!” I assure you that I am not a
ghost! I am alive, and well, actually I am a little beaten up from my last battle, but we will discuss that
momentarily, thanks to the wonderful staff at Coopersville Regional Medical Center. When I died from
the death cloud (that’s what I call the vapors I inhaled), Ms. Johnson called the paramedics who were
able to breathe for me until the Doctors at Coopersville Reginal could resuscitate me. It was a long
process, and I was in a coma for about eighteen months, but all in all, I am alive, and the procedures
were a success.
I woke up from that eighteen-month coma three and a half years ago. There wasn’t much that
happened during the first two years, a lot of recovery and learning basic functions like how to walk
again. But just one day after the second anniversary of my waking up, I had an encounter with my first
demon. You may be thinking that would have been a terrifying experience, but strangely, it wasn’t. As a
matter of fact, I thought my mind was just making stuff up. This wasn’t some scene out of a horror
movie. It was an actual demon just walking down the street as if it was on its way to work. I decided I

DANNY DEMON HUNTER
wasn’t going to tell anyone what I had seen, for fear they would send me back into rehab or something. I
even tried to convince myself that it wasn’t real, but from that day on, I saw a lot of demons.
I did a really good job of ignoring them and bringing no attention to myself. I acted as if I
couldn’t just see into this spirit world and see the demons that walked among us. It was pretty easy,
considering again that they weren’t just devouring people on sidewalks and stuff. Most of the time, they
would play pranks on the people hurrying up and down the sidewalks. I watched one demon, his name
was, are you ready for this, Patrick, possess a stressed looking businessman just so he could make him
spill his coffee all over himself. When Patrick reemerged from the business man’s body, he was laughing
hysterically. Again, I just ignored the entire scene in front of me and nodded to the businessman as he
walked by muttering a slew of curse words.
I got really accustomed to seeing the demons around, but my whole life changed one year ago
today when I was visited by an Angel named…Angel (crazy right!) What Angel told me has changed the
course of my life forever and has led me down this path I am on. He told me of the hunters that have
come before me, of the tradition that must be kept or else the demons will run wild and destroy
humanity. I fought this insane notion that I was a chosen one left to carry on this tradition. But night
after night, and eventually, all day every day, Angel was there explaining to me my destiny.
Still, I fought him, but in the end, he convinced me. So here I was a twenty-one-year-old, nonathletic, pudgy, just finished recovery from an eighteen-month coma, self-proclaimed nerd and I had
just agreed to demon hunting training. I was trained for months in the way of the preceding hunters
before it was my turn to hunt. I took to the magic portion of my training with ease. I was, after all, a
wizard at making deadly chemical mist already. The weapons training was a point of difficulty for me.
The demon hunters use two specific weapons, a short sword that was quenched in holy water, and a
hand axe said to be forged from Death’s own scythe.

DANNY DEMON HUNTER
Once I mastered the techniques, I was ready to hunt my first demon. As it turns out, I knew of a
particularly annoying demon that would hang out by the coffee shop I frequented. Hey, you all know
him too. That’s right; my first demon would be Patrick, the coffee spilling practical joker that he was.
It turned out that I was quite the natural. I was able to send Patrick right back to the
netherworld with relative ease. I have spent the last ten months tracking down and eliminating demons
pretty regularly. That was until I encountered Belashkazar. I should have known that a demon with the
name Belashkazar would be far more difficult to destroy than one named Patrick, but once again just
like in chemistry class, I had grown a little too cocky. Once I had tracked down Belashkazar, I
immediately went in for the kill, but my demon nemesis was not having that. He tossed me around like a
ragdoll, and he even tried to possess me. I was able to land a few clean strikes, earning me a guttural
roar that quite literally came from the pits of Hell. I was too slow and underprepared for the behemoth
Belashkazar and he vanished before either of us could land a killing blow.
I am in the process of tracking down Belashkazar again, but I couldn’t pass on the opportunity to
share my story with someone. I really hope you learned something here today, even if that something is
be careful in chemistry class! Anyway, I am back on the hunt trying my best not to die again because of
underestimation of my foe and overestimation of my abilities. I’m not entirely clear on whether or not a
demon can kill me, so I should probably clear that up with Angel.
But, I am glad you read my story, and if I make it through this next battle, I will share more. But
for now, this is Daniel Ryker, demon hunter, and your new best friend, signing off.


