When Pam was a kid she had a schoolyard boyfriend named Adam.
“You’ve been bitten by the lovebug,” her mother said.
The thought petrified her. Does love bite? she wondered to herself long after even
her parents’ bedtimes. Adam was often cruel to her. Sometimes his friends would see
them holding hands and they would laugh and he would let go of her hand like it was on
fire. He had told his friends she gave him a handjob, which wasn’t true, but when they
laughed at her for it he laughed with them.
She imagined Adam sneaking up on her, in her room where it was dark and she
had thought she was alone. He would bite her. She would be frightened at first when she
felt the pain but then once she knew it was him biting her she would feel safer in his arms
bleeding, than she did when she thought she was alone, intact. This thought finally
restored her to sleep.
I’ve never had a clearer thought in my life, she thinks.
They sit next to each other at a table for two, overlooking the Met atrium. Marble
urns filled with flowers descend the staircase. Across the way there are 18th century
French plates and vases behind glass. The second floor is dim, crowded with people, but
it’s so spacious that it’s relatively quiet. A pianist plays Beethoven sonatas. Kyle abruptly
picks up his chair and moves across from Pam, his back to antique kitchenware.
He inhales sharply, pauses, and smiles.
“Pam, I’m just not ready for something like this.”

1
Flotsam Jetsam and Derelict

She tries to take a sip of her martini but her hand feels too weak to hold the stem
of the glass.
“Like what? What is this?”
“I dunno.”
“Clearly you have some idea about it.”
“It’s not nothing.”
“And you’d like… what. Nothing?”
He pauses and exhales with relief.
“Exactly!” He smiles cheekily.
“Cute.”
“Ah. I thought… nevermind.”
An angry minor chord cuts through the din of conversation. The piano player
holds off for a few moments and then dives into the Pathetique.
Stay calm, she thinks. An overreaction is a tick in the loss column.
“Why did you bother dating me if you weren’t ready for this?” A neighboring
table stops their conversation abruptly and Pam gets the distinct feeling they are drawing
attention to themselves. “Why did you bother writing to me in the first place? Why did
you bother with any of it?”
“I like you, isn’t that a good enough reason?”
“We don’t have to fuck everything we like.”
A tick in the loss column, she thinks.
The piano player rushes into a manic part in a minor key. The two of them sip
their drinks, her pretending to be unaffected, him pretending to want to be there. Pam
2
Flotsam Jetsam and Derelict

listens to two matronly German women sitting next to them. The only words she
understands in their conversation are “Costco” and “Monroe, New Jersey.”
“So you took me out to a romantic date to break up with me?”
“I don’t know, Pam. It just kind of happened. I didn’t want to do it over text or
phone.”
“Very considerate.”
She wants to talk. To ask him questions, an exit interview. They walk through the
museum and she feels how much he wants to leave. She asks him “why” in a few
different ways and before long the physical pain of humiliation leaves Pam and the two
of them are left with the husk of their relationship. They talk about work, about their
favorite places to travel, about restaurants in Brooklyn. She looks at the backgrounds of
the Renaissance and Mannerist paintings, the boggy aquamarine castles steaming behind
Italian nobles, turbulent dusks behind effeminate Christs. She looks at Caravaggio’s The
Musicians and remembers an art teacher telling her that the shadowy, shocked looking
face in the middle of the scene was a self-portrait. She looks at all the figures in the
painting, and then all the figures in all his paintings, and thinks how close they all look to
that self-portrait: even his St. Peter is just an exaggerated and aged version of that same
face. She thinks about spending a lifetime painting yourself, seeing yourself in other
peoples’ faces wherever you go or however you conceive of them. A world of yous, and
you can treat them how you want, because after all, they all get where you’re coming
from.
“You must be a happy person, Kyle.”
“I do OK.” He offers a confused smile.
3
Flotsam Jetsam and Derelict

They say goodbyes. “Take care of yourself,” he says. She watches him leave
through the main doors and feels her loneliness in the pit of her stomach, a faint diarrheic
pang that stays with her as she wanders through Byzantine and Medieval art, looking at
nothing, just feeling the museum, resonating with dates. Blind dates, first dates, second
dates fueled with pretentious conversation and half-cocked intellectualism from men in
their only decent sports coat. Gay dates, straight dates, married dates, divorcee dates,
tourist dates: romantic vacations made stern and logistical by men with maps and fanny
packs. Perfumed European women with their dutiful husbands.
And in the Arms and Armor, droves of school children with snot on their hands
whoop and shriek past the solemn old knights, a testament to the fecundity of the place.
The tragic and ineluctable denominator of all that love and suffering.

Sam Aldermann lived on Pam’s floor in her freshman year of college and was
well known for the three-foot bong he kept under his bed. He made a pass at her during
the first week of school. She acquiesced to a brief make out session over a DVD of a
Grateful Dead concert and a considerable quantity of hydroponic marijuana.
From under her sheets, she stares at a profile photo of Sam Aldermann at a
Lincoln Center Gala with the rapper Big Sean and Deputy Mayor Stephen Filmore.
“#living”
A series of posts on branding and marketing, a link to his inclusion on a recent
Forbes “30 under 30” list, in their “Tycoons” section. “Humbled by this,” he wrote as his
caption.

4
Flotsam Jetsam and Derelict

Her Facebook feed is a slew of success stories, people working in tech offices
with video games and pool tables and free meals, friends with bylines at big newspapers,
with books coming out on Simon and Schuster and Harper Collins, coming back from
honeymoons in the Maldives, getting married at the Plaza, getting married at a converted
warehouse in the hippest part of Bushwick, nobody posting about losing a
communications job due to layoffs and nobody posting about working temp jobs and
waitressing and publishing short fiction but only in journals with names no one knows
with readership only as big as their editorial staff: The Tuscaloosa Review,
WebShorts.com, a tumblr account for microfiction that Pam had gathered over a few
emails back and forth was run by a teenager in Long Island. Nobody was posting about
their breakups.
So Pam puts away her phone and thinks about home – Hollywood, Florida, a
mixed income small city an hour north of Miami, filled with condominiums, small pink
houses with bars on the window, some wealthy enclaves. There, she thinks, there are
young men who became cops, others who went to state college and returned home to
work for family businesses selling siding or installing Jacuzzis. They eat big lunches at
restaurants with Thursday night wing deals, have small pools, and drive home from work
on silent state highways under the lonesome tangerine glow of a Florida sunset. There
are women, their wives, who work in real estate or retail and at night they watch
television without feeling guilty that there’s something better to do.
That is a life she could have had, perhaps. There was a boy. She waited for his
calls and jumped when the phone rang, she met him for dates at the Baskin Robbins, she
dressed her prettiest and eventually they made love. Then, coming back home for college
5
Flotsam Jetsam and Derelict

breaks, he was still there, never her boyfriend in those years, but always her lover, always
her friend.
“Move home, Pam.” Aaron had said to her during the last of those breaks, while
they drank cans of Bud Light on lawn furniture in his yard. “Come live with me. I’ll tell
Pete to move out and we can have this place to ourselves, do this every night. Just
imagine it.”
She had thought of the two of them living in his three room pink house with the
vinyl siding and the bars on the window, the side lawn with the plastic furniture strewn
out, working in one of the thousands of strip malls that stretched out over the county
baking silently in the cruel sun, of unending sitting around, waiting for something to
change in a place where it never did.
“I don’t want it, that’s all”
“But I love you.”
She had given his hand a firm squeeze and smiled at him. She moved to New
York the following week, and her parents moved north to be near their kids shortly after.
She hugs a pillow into her chest and listens to the sounds of her downstairs
neighbor yelling at her kid. She doesn’t miss him, she thinks, but she considers the pink
house, the side lawn dewy with the smell of sweet wet grass under a canopy of palm
trees, of nights when the sun doesn’t go down until 10, of laying out on the reclining
patio chair, of her career mattering less, of the simple smiles that lovers share.

The itzikaya restaurant is one they went to in college before they were of legal
drinking age. The walls are adorned with ironic pictures of Hirohito and Japanese kitsch.
6
Flotsam Jetsam and Derelict

Pam and Bella always meet here because they have more fun when they are pretending
they are still in college and they like not bumping into anyone they know. Bella is there
first, she has ordered sakes and edamame. At 30, she’s donned middle age prematurely,
with its baggier clothing and moderate signs of physical exhaustion, a kind of worldweariness that always positions her as a counselor or therapist whenever the two get
together, and she wears it all well; confidently.
“You look fabulous,” Bella says.
Pam realizes too late that, in lieu of actually planning an outfit, she wore as much
jewelry as would fit on her. Big, wooden earrings, necklaces with fat beads, a wrist full of
bracelets. She thinks that she looks like a middle school art teacher.
“Bella, I’m gonna move out of the city.”
“Where to?”
“Well… don’t laugh. But Florida. Back home.”
Bella laughs, sips her sake.
“Stop it. This prick isn’t worth that. He’s just a prick.”
“It’s not about Kyle.”
“OK. Then what’s it about. Work? You’ll get a real job if you apply enough.
You’re brilliant.”
Pam thinks of driving places, not worrying what she’s wearing, air-conditioned
cars, a plethora of parking spaces, apartments with living rooms and guest rooms.
“I just want to live somewhere…palatable.”
“OK. People talk about leaving. That’s part of living here. That’s what makes
here palatable. You don’t actually go. So stop. You’d be so bored.”
7
Flotsam Jetsam and Derelict

Bella asks Pam to go with her to a magazine launch party. Pam remembers the
last of these affairs, the smokers outside mingling, everyone probing everyone else about
where they worked, who they came with, who they know, and eventually sorting
themselves into small groups by order of importance.
Instead, she goes home and buys round trip tickets to Fort Lauderdale, and looks
at apartments online and wonders how serious she is. She finds two bedroom apartments
for under 600 dollars.

The humidity in Broward County soaks the trash and the dirt and the sickly-sweet
palm trees and the sun bakes it and the whole place smells like shit. That’s something
Pam never picked up on when she was growing up, but now that she’s back, it’s
inescapably true. In fact, it’s suffocating.
And Pam’s rental car is haunted with a faint geriatric air. A whiff of crusty Chanel
no. 5, a powdered Kleenex in the cup holder. She drives down 95, the windows closed,
blasting the air-conditioning, her only olfactory escape.
She gets off at her old exit, the one before the closest one to home, to avoid some
traffic. She remembers every road, the stop signs she can coast through, the flamingo
pink and canary yellow houses, the bright green lawns, mowed to perfect squares. She
drives past her old house, remembers barbecues in the lawn, the smell of sausage
cooking, of chlorine from the neighbor’s pool. She drives past her high school, serious
and modern with long, flat slanted roofs and big glass windows, and remembers smoking
cigarettes with a boy she liked outside the rear exit.

8
Flotsam Jetsam and Derelict

She has a few hours to kill before meeting Aaron, so she goes to a local wing
restaurant and orders a glass of red wine. The bartender is confused and looks lost for a
while as he excavates the bottle from a distant shelf. It’s served in a dusty champagne
glass and is nearly undrinkable. She wonders what Aaron will look like, what kind of life
he’ll have, if he will be kind and if he’ll touch her or kiss her or bring a bottle of
something nice for them to enjoy while they lay on a blanket, watching the sun set. She
orders another glass of wine.
She told him she’d meet him on the beach, at a bench at which they used to sit,
and she is there first. She looks at the ocean licking the sand. She sees Aaron. He has a
beard now, he’s maybe ten pounds heavier. When they make eye contact he trots over
and she shifts her weight on the bench.
It is strange to see him, to hug him, the sense of knowing the body under his
clothes better than the man himself, with his deeper voice, his baggy eyes that seem less
ready to make or maintain eye contact.
“So good to see you Pam”
The mole on his hip, the x-marks-the-spot for his hip bone, her handle, still there
she was sure, just under some new weight.
“It’s good to see you too, Aaron.”
The way his penis curved, like a half-smile, a wink.
He worked, he said. Something about restaurant supplies. He lived in the same
house, now without a roommate. Pam made it sound like her temp job was permanent,
and impressive.
“So you’ve got to be married or on your way by now, Pam. Right?”
9
Flotsam Jetsam and Derelict

She noticed a sourness to his breath. Was that beer? She tasted the acidity of
cheap wine at the back of her throat.
“No, Aaron. No guy. No hubby, no fiancé, no boyfriend.”
The sun is dipping into the horizon. The ocean is filled with a languid purple
light. Pam thinks it looks like blood.
“What about you?” she says.
“Well, I was thinking of making someone up. Just to make you jealous. But no.
Nobody.”
Pam considers how she wouldn’t be jealous at all. She laughs for him, though.
Aaron pulls the bottom of his shirt down, which seems to be just a touch too short.
“And New York?”
She has nothing left to say without lying. Suddenly, the thought of describing her
loneliness or frustration seems like a horrible errand, loaded with necessary backstory,
futile love affairs and a half-dozen desk jobs that bore her to even recall.
“It’s fine. Not as fun as it was when I was 22, but fine.”
She feels to ask him about Hollywood is rude, since she imagines she knows that
things aren’t going so well for him. But she doesn’t have a clue, she thinks. She finds that
maybe she doesn’t care.
And soon there is nothing to say. They look at each other, and there is no
romance. Just the cold anxiety of adolescent sexuality, still present there. She feels like
she should kiss him, but when he leans toward her, she looks forward. He kicks the sand.
A sequin vest floats to the shore. Perhaps the remains of a cruise ship emcee,
eaten by sharks. Or a charter boat bartender who quit on the job, failing to think of the
10
Flotsam Jetsam and Derelict

awkward ride back to the shore. The whole place seems like it’s filled with sad mysteries
in the form of litter: a single shoe tied to a tree branch, an industrial-sized jar of mayo,
emptied, a collection of empty whiskey bottles in the naked shrubs that line the back of
the beach.
“I forgot how much litter there was in Florida.”
“Me too,” Aaron says. “Until you just said so.”
They look at the litter behind the bench, in the water, in the shrubbery, the whole
of Florida like a museum of human trash.
“Until right now,” he repeated.
By the time they leave, the beach is silent under the shade of a moonless night.
The sea looks black and oily. Pam’s rental car still smells sweet and decrepit, and she
wonders if she can fly standby, catch an earlier flight. She hears Aaron start his car and
the wheels pull out. She wonders where he’s off to. Somewhere better, she thinks.

11
Flotsam Jetsam and Derelict


