Rocky snuck into Phil and Ma’s bedroom, rubbed his palm against the cherrywood
dresser, the one housing the .300 Winchester. He kissed the wood and walked out.
Sam replaced half a bottle of Ketel One with cold water from the kitchen sink, mind
that—better take what’s left. Whose going to miss it? He poured from a pint of orange
Fanta into three crystal glasses found in Phil’s off-limits kitchenware cabinet, adding
a dangerous amount of Ketel into each. Jack took three cushions off the sofa and
placed them on the dining room floor. The boys called the drink a Russian Sunset.
They lifted Phil’s walnut dining table. Shoved it into the corner of the room. They
drank their spiked Fanta, looking up at Phil’s chandelier, sitting on Phil’s leather
cushions, in what used to be their Ma’s house.
“Let’s do away with all these pictures,” Sam said.
“What about the ones with Mom in them?” Jack said.
“We can cut Mom out. Keep her in a book, and burn the rest.”
“Still a ways away until the sun goes down,” Rocky said.
“Drink up.”
Rocky sipped his cup. “I think I’m drunk,” he said.
“You’re not drunk,” Sam said. Rocky poured more vodka into his drank as if this
was approval. “Did you take your pills this morning? Doesn’t matter, you should be
fine.” Sam took another swig and said, “We need to hitchhike to New Orleans. Ride
in the back of old mens’ pick-ups or mothers’ mini-vans.”

“I won’t miss the snow coming, anyway, I threw those pills out. No way you can
drag me from this snow,” Rocky said. He finished his cup and the older brothers
weren’t far behind.
“We’ll have to go somewhere,” Sam said.
“Not leaving this snow,” Rocky repeated.
Jack poured another round. He said, “We could become Celtic fans and hop over
to Aunt Casey’s in Mass.”
“Rocky, you really toss your pills?”
“Ma would get up and die all over again if she saw us cheering green. Those pills
make my head feel like rock candy,” Rocky said.
They sipped their drinks. Jack hiccuped. Sam said, “Let’s do away with these
pictures.”
They looked out the dining room window, into the driveway, and saw it had
started to snow.

The boys had worked up a sweat, smashing and tearing and burning up photos of Phil
in the fireplace: Phil and a group of men holding up a twelve-foot marlin, Phil and
their mother on an African safari, Phil pointing an imaginary rifle at a disinterested
lion. Sam and Jack had taken off their shirts while Rocky stripped all the way down to
his boxers. They looked silently at a framed photo of Mom looking overjoyed;
purple, green, and gold beads around her neck, a silver-sparkled top hat on her head, a
beautiful blue drink in her hands, among a crowd of other sweaty men and women on

a littered street. They left the picture untouched and moved on to a picture of Phil and
Mom at their wedding ceremony. The boys were all there, entering their early teens,
all wearing child-sized suits kept from long-forgotten violin recitals, feigning smiles
for the sake of Mom. They had married in the backyard, under a Huppah built the
night before by members of the Synagogues’ at risk-teens program. It was late July
then, a real sticky summer, and the boys stood beside their mother while sweat glided
down their backs like the sensation of eight-legged things webbing along their spines.
The boys broke into the frame and ripped out Mom’s half of the photo—her blushing
in a charcoal dress, a second-wedding look the boys figured—and left Phil’s to burn
with the rest of their memories of him.
By the end of it, the bunch felt pretty satisfied with their work, and decided to
reward themselves with Phil’s New York strip marinating in the fridge. Sam poured
canola oil into a smoking cast iron and smiled at the music of Phil’s steak frying. Jack
picked rosemary from Mom’s window garden, and Rocky crushed up garlic under the
heel of his palm. After a few minutes, Sam added the rosemary, garlic, and some
butter into the pan, and with a spoon he basted the steak just like Mom had taught him.
She had slotted him in as the future family chef, keeping him planted by her hip on
Christmas Eves, watching how she folded the phyllo dough to make tiropita. Like
you’d fold the American flag.
“It’s getting smoky,” Sam said, trying to repel the smoke with his open palms. He
didn’t bother turning on the vent.

Rocky walked over to Phil’s handyman cabinet, just next to the sink, and picked
out a hammer. He examined the hammer’s eye and then the hammer’s head, not sure
which to pick. He was feeling lethal, electricity dancing in his head. He threw the
hammer into the kitchen window and jeered at the site of exploding glass.
“You see that shit?” Rocky looked at his brothers. “The beauty went right
through!”
Wind trickled snow into the house, one flake at a time, and the boys felt their skin
shrink against the touch of cold.

Sam filled up Phil’s spa tub with hot water while Jack dragged Phil’s record player
into the bathroom. Rocky was busy doing pull ups, hanging from the bathroom door.
When he got down, his face was bright red and his hands ached, the skin on his palms
threatening to tear.
“Don’t worry,” Sam told him, “you won’t be so small for long. You’ll grow as
big as Jack and I.”
“I’m plenty big as it is,” Rocky said. He pulled down his boxers and showed off
his pecker.
“What in the fuck are you doing?” Jack said, the two older brothers couldn’t help
but laugh.
“We’re going into the tub, aren’t we?”
“We were going to put on our swimsuits.”

“Who wears a swimsuit in a bathtub? What’s the matter with you? We’re
brothers.”
The two older brothers couldn’t argue, so they both pulled out their peckers, too.
Jack played a Nirvana record and the three of them jumped in while Cobain sang.
“This is fucking beautiful,” Rocky said.
When the water started to get cold, Sam turned the faucet on and let it run and run
to the point water came overflowing onto the bathroom tiles. Didn’t matter. Just water.
Jack put shampoo in his hair and Rocky found his Ma’s old nail filer on the edge of
the tub. He started filing his nails like he’d seen Ma do, filing down the nail then
blowing away the loose bits. She’d taken to the obsession around the same time she’d
been prescribed the pills.
“This keeps the mind focused,” she’d tell Rocky as her nails whittled down closer
and closer to the cuticle.
But who needs focus? Rocky figured. He wasn’t slow or inattentive or
hyperactive—well, he was lively—he just saw a world going by faster and faster, and
he always felt the need to chase it down with all his might. And, he felt, if Ma had
done the same, instead of letting Phil seize all her power, she may still be around. Not
staring down at her fingernails, but pacing back and forth in the kitchen, alive with
words and thoughts, twirling a paring knife between her fingers and a Bloody Mary in
her free-hand, listening to Rocky as he sat on the kitchen rug, following her feet with
his eyes, telling her about his suspicion of a 33rd tooth in his mouth. “You’re so
different than your brothers,” Ma would laugh. It was true, after all, Rocky was

different not only because Rocky was different, but he was Phil’s only son, too. For
this reason, he hated Phil even more than his brothers could think.
Rocky slid his lips under the tub water then bobbed back up. He said, “How long
do you figure it takes to drown?”
“I wouldn’t drown myself,” Jack said. “It’s the absolute worst way to go. I’d find
a cloud of snow and nestle myself deep in the powder and sip on some Vodka until I
fell asleep.”
“And freeze to death.”
“I heard it’s like dreaming your way into Heaven.”
“Who could tell you that? Who could report that back to you?”
“Don’t poke holes.”
Sam reached out and flipped the record. He said, “I don’t know how I’d do it.”
“Guess at it,” Jack said.
“I don’t know. Mom and Kurt did it the right way. I wouldn’t change it much.”
“You’re a rip-off artist,” Jack laughed.
“I could just about die in this tub,” Rocky said.
“Rip-off artist.”
Rocky laid his head back and let his toes point out the water. He said, “This tub. I
could die in this tub.”
Sam said, “Hitching to New Orleans wouldn’t be too hard.”
“Now there’s a way to get yourself killed,” Jack said.
Rocky stewed in the water. Eyes closed.

“New Orleans wouldn’t be too bad.”
“Maybe it wouldn’t be too bad.”
Rocky sighed. “The suns almost gonna go down.”
“I’m pruning up anyway,” Sam said.
“Rip-off artist,” Jack repeated.
Rocky wanted to punch his two brothers in the jaw to shut them both up, but
figured it wasn’t worth wasting what they had going. Plus, his muscles felt emulsified
with the tub water, tender and powerless. He wasn’t sure if he could even throw a
punch, he was feeling so drained with the vodka hitting his heart and his body soaking
up all this hot water. But it felt good, he felt settled for once, not even the bickering of
his brothers could turn him violent right now.
Jack finally turned the faucet off. It became silent for a moment too long, the kind
of silence which unsettles a bath, so quiet the boys could hear air bouncing off the
tiled floor, droplets of water still leaking out of the tub.The three boys stood up and
dried off with Phil’s towels, their feet still soaking in the water below.

The brothers sat on wet grass and hoped for their mother to rise on out the grave.
Rocky bundled blades of grass in his fists and tore out the earth, softened by the day’s
sun. Sam and Jack opened up a few cans of tuna fish, a jar of mayonnaise, some rye
bread, and a jar of pickles. Jack used his pinky to open up a well in the center of the
tuna and Sam put in a dollop of the mayonnaise. Rocky lifted his hands above his
head, opened his tightened fists, and let wind blow the grass into Ma’s gravestone.

Jack took out his pocket knife and spread tuna fish onto the rye while Sam offered a
pickle to Rocky. For once, the boys ate their sandwiches in silence, just waiting for
the sun to shut up. Maybe they felt like paying some kind of respect with their silence
as a token, maybe they just had their tongues balled up in their throats because each
were doing all they could to hold their tears back for the sake of each other. Who will
ever know why boys choose the moments they do to stay quiet?
Rocky walked off alone. The sky had lit up a few more stars. He walked all the
way back down the hill, across the street, down his driveway, and into Phil’s house.
He walked into Phil’s bedroom, once Ma’s bedroom too. He opened up the
cherrywood cabinet. He shuffled around Phil’s old suits, he threw ties and unused
coat hangers to the floor; a pair of Ma’s old flat-tops flung across the room, but he
didn’t find what he was looking for. Rocky hadn’t realized Phil must have dumped
the rifle, or more like him, sold it off for cheap. It made sense, after all, it was the only
thing left in the house, besides the boys, who could put him at fault. Rocky bit down
on his tongue until he tasted blood. Did Phil think he could clear himself as easy as
this? Did he think he didn’t have what was coming to him? After all his lectures on
how it’s a tool for hunting, for protecting, and these two things are very different than
killing--no--they’re not killing at all. And he likely sold it off. And he knows why he
did, too. Rocky wanted to ensure a Universe in which Phil got what was coming.
Rocky believed in the Universe working its ways. Ma and him had talked it over all
the time, back when he’d sit at her feet on the kitchen floor: they talked about
hurricanes and wildfires, garbage shot out into space, and whether or not the New

York Knicks had another championship coming their way. They talked about how
wind could blow in good luck, how it was actually light from the full moon that fed
the Lamb’s Ears in her garden and not the sun. Ma played friend to the Universe, said
it always dished out what needed to happen, like a law, like gravity, there was no
stopping it. Rocky believed her words, he ate each one of them up.
And then she left him.
A half-hour passed, maybe a full hour—Rocky walked back to Ma’s grave, up the
driveway, across the street, up the hill. His brothers would be calling him by now. By
now, the moon was out and the sky was all stars and ink, and his brothers met Rocky
halfway down the hill where they tangled their arms around each others’ shoulders in
the way brothers do.

The boys sat back down under the dining room chandelier, waiting for Phil’s car to
pull into the driveway. It had gotten late, and the boys couldn’t imagine where he was,
but they’d be waiting.
Rocky crossed his legs while Sam pulled out a deck of playing cards. He cut the
cards, then made a bridge and shuffled them together. He dealt them out, one at a time,
and they played Texas Hold ‘Em just like Mom had taught them, using Phil’s model
car collection as betting chips. Jack had taken a cigar from Phil’s humidor, and kept it
unlit between his teeth.

“There are po’ boys, racing tracks for horses, and people can bring their drinks on
the street,” Jack said. He was going on about New Orleans again. A place he’d never
seen besides one photograph.
“We need a car to get down,” Sam said, “nobody, except someone more
dangerous and crazy than us, is going to hitch three boys all the way down south, yet
alone down the street.”
“There’s the Mississippi River running through, too. And sun nearly all year
round.”
“You’re obsessed.” Sam wanted to shut Jack down, but he was smiling through
his teeth, and the two brothers knew it, knew the excitement they all shared.
“I raise your Aston with my GT,” Rocky said, slamming down the model car with
real confidence. He didn’t have a hand, but he figured he could bluff at it.
“Doesn’t seem of equal value,” Jack argued. “A GT and an Aston.”
“It’s American made, of course it’s got value,” Sam said. He wanted to shut down
the argument before it started, but Rocky was already standing up.
“Are you stupid?” He was going on, when the motion lights out front flashed.
Rocky planted himself down to the floor. The boys sat silent.
“Mom would see this coming a mile away,” Rocky said. He pushed his GT
around the hardwood with the tip of his pinky finger, his eyes looking down at
nothing.
“She’d be expecting it,” Jack said, the dumb grin of a boy on his face.
The brothers could hear footsteps getting closer and closer to the front door.

“She was always more afraid for him than she was for us,” Sam said.
The front door opened and the boys stood up.

When Rocky saw it wasn’t Phil — wasn’t the person he’d expected to walk through
that door —he almost feel limp.
There she was, standing tall, a little shaky at the knees like one might expect
from a corpse. She didn’t exactly look her finest, but the boys recognized grandma’s
silver pendant around her neck, the way the morticians had done up her hair to hide
the bullet wound, and that suspicious grin on her face when she caught her boys in
one of their many acts.
“You aren’t here to take our souls down to Hell, are you, Ma?” Rocky asked
in a respectful, but assertive voice.
Everyone stood quiet for a moment until the corpse burst out laughing.
“You left all the lights on,” she exclaimed. “You have the heat blasting and the
windows open. I hear a faucet left on in the bathroom, I smell burnt rosemary in the
kitchen. I couldn’t abide by it.”
The boys welcomed their mother in. She took Rocky’s hand, who she saw was
shaking, and they went into the kitchen for a glass of water.
“You don’t look your finest,” Sam said.
“I feel great,” said the corpse.
“We were just up visiting you,” Jack said.
“How’d you dig out of all that dirt?” Rocky said.

“Your mother still has some tricks up her sleeve,” said the corpse.
The boys watched as the corpse chugged a glass of water. They were
expecting to see liquid seep out of her skin, out of her eyes and ears, and drip down
unto the floor. Instead they watched her throat swell as water spilled down to her
stomach. Her hands shook a bit. Dirt lodged under her fingernails. Otherwise, she
looked refreshed, satisfied.
“We should get to cleaning,” said the corpse.
The boys didn’t know what to say. They never had a problem speaking back to
their mother, but this of course felt different. They weren’t even sure how much of
their mother still existed in the flesh presented before them. Was her soul snug in the
confines of this skin, this bodily figure?
“By the way the three of you are looking at me, I can see I’ve frightened you
all,” said the corpse. “But really, it’s making me uncomfortable. I mean, get over it.
There are crazier things happening in this world.”
Sam, being the oldest, decided he should chime in: “The thing is, Mom. We
don’t want to fix the house.”
“What he means to say is, we did it all intentionally,” Jack said.
“We wanted Phil to feel our wrath,” Rocky said.
“Phil,” the corpse let the letters slide off her slimy tongue, round out on her
lips like she was practicing a foreign language. “Where is Phil?”
“We don’t know,” Rocky said.

She didn’t seem to hear Rocky. In fact, she was glancing off, into the hole in
the window. She shook her head. “You know, I learned a lot while I was away. Look
what you boys have done to this house.”
“We didn’t expect you coming back,” Jack said. “We were planning on taking
off.”
“To New Orleans,” Sam said.
“Or Massachusetts,” Rocky said.

The boys agreed to clean the house. Jack got to mopping up the bathwater, Sam
re-organized the dining room, and Rocky closed up the hole in the window with some
cardboard and duct tape. The corpse took out a batch of Chestnut soup she’d frozen
from Christmas and began to heat it on the stove top. The aroma warmed the house.
The boys didn’t realize how exhausted they were until they all made the table, lit a
pair of candles, and watched their mother serve bowls of soup.
“Are you going to stay for long, Ma?” Rocky said.
“Frankly, I don’t know,” said the corpse. “I’m new to this.”
The family ate in near silence after. There was an air in the room, something
beyond delicate. A pressure limiting the boys’ movements, how they ate, how they
spaced out each breath. They feared anything too sudden, and their mother might
disappear all over again. Rocky began to cry.
“I don’t want you to leave.”
He said what all the brothers were thinking.

All the corpse could do was smile and serve more soup. In this, there was
some comfort — the steam rising from the bowls, the warmth it brought into the
house.
“I want to pat myself on the back,” the corpse said, “this is good soup.”
There was some comfort in the house after all.


