One day, two pieces of bread, one Wheat, one Rye, entered a toaster.

After a few moments one of the two spoke. “Do you believe there's life after toast?” Asked Wheat.
Rye snarkily replied. “Nonsense, there's no proof of life after toast. What kind of life would that be?”
“Really?” Wheat said, surprised by Rye’s dismissal. “But, what about the promises of being smothered in butters
and jams?” He argued.
“Insane!” Rye said with impunity. “Butter and jam is the flippant creation of the weak minded to stave off the fear
of toast with pretty imagery.”
“Well, perhaps there's luncheon meats.” Wheat countered.
“Luncheon meats!” Rye now becoming angered by Wheat’s apparent naivety. “Absurd! If there was such a thing
we would have seen them, like when we were being baked.”
Wheat thinks on this for a moment, then retorts with banality. “Well, maybe we shall finally know Mr. Wonderful
and why he created bread in the first place.”
“There is NO Mr.Wonderful!” Rye screamed at Wheat, his restraint snapping at the foolishness of Wheat’s
statement. “It's a hocus pocus invention of those in power who prey on the weak through superstitious rhetoric in
order to control them! We came from the primordial dough, forged from the individual building blocks of
confection, combined by the forces of kneading and chance!”

A long silence formed between them, until Wheat spoke. “Well thats an interesting viewpoint, but I believe there's
something greater then toast awaiting us-”
“There is more awaiting us!” Rye cut off Wheat, unwilling to listen to his nonsense any longer, “It's called
carbonizing and dissolving into dust to dwell under the crumb tray for all eternity you flakey biscuit!”

Suddenly and without warning, both pieces pop up from the toaster, golden brown.

Wheat in a state of elation, “I see him, I see Mr. Wonderful!”
Rye replied in horror, “Holy shit, why does He have teeth?!”

Both the faithful and rational pieces of toast were ravaged and consumed that day.
Neither were smothered in jam.


