She  drove  up  the  driveway  and  turned  off  the  car  and  threw  the  keys  in  the  
deep  abyss  of  her  purse.  It  was  1:30  in  the  morning.    The  fifteen-­‐  degree  weather  
made  fog  immediately  cover  the  windows  of  the  car  after  she  turned  off  the  engine.    
Her  six  children  were  fast  asleep  in  the  back  of  the  minivan.    He  was  in  the  
passenger’s  front  seat  fully  engaged  in  a  joyous  conversation  on  his  cell  phone.    She  
gathered  her  purse  and  fixed  her  scarf,  making  sure  that  the  icy  winter  air  could  not  
crawl  up  her  exposed  neck.      She  opened  the  door  and  hurriedly  placed  her  feet  on  
the  ground  so  that  she  could  open  the  side  door  to  remove  the  baby  from  the  car  
seat.    She  picked  up  the  ten-­‐pound  baby  and  laid  him  on  her  shoulder  like  a  sack  of  
potatoes,  along  with  the  diaper  bag  in  her  other  hand.    She  gently  called  the  names  
of  the  five  other  children  so  that  they  could  wake  from  their  sleep,  to  walk  in  the  
warm  house.    Immediately  the  children  fell  right  back  to  sleep.  She  used  her  free  
hand  and  gingerly  took  turns  guiding  the  children  one  by  one  up  the  driveway,  onto  
the  porch.  After  they  were  on  the  porch,  she  closed  the  porch  door.    She  searched  
through  her  purse  on  the  frigid  dark  porch  for  the  keys  to  the  house.    She  put  the  
key  in  the  lock  and  opened  the  door.    
  She  was  relieved  with  being  able  to  place  the  diaper  bag  and  her  purse  on  
the  counter.    With  the  baby  in  her  arms,  they  walked  through  the  door  into  the  
warm  house.      Empty  handed,  he  walked  through  the  door  a  few  moments  later  then  
asked,  “Are  all  of  the  children  inside?”    She  replied,  “yes  they  are.”      Not  giving  much  
thought  into  what  he  just  asked,  she  unzipped  the  baby’s  snowsuit  and  put  her  to  
bed.    The  children  were  all  in  bed  fast  asleep,  so  she  thought.      She  undressed  herself  
and  got  in  the  bed  next  to  him.    For  the  next  several  hours  she  fell  into  a  paralyzing  

slumber.  In  her  dream  state  she  kept  hearing  reoccurring  sounds  of  the  screaming  
little  boy  who  was  being  chased  by  a  dog.  The  dog  ran  back  to  his  master  but  the  
little  boy  was  still  yelling.  The  perpetual  sounds  of  the  little  boy  yelling  brought  her  
to  a  jolting  conscious  state  of  sobering  mobility.  She  realized  that  the  little  boy  
yelling  and  screaming  was  one  of  her  little  ones  who  feel  asleep  on  that  freezing  
dark  porch.      
The  whole  house  was  awakened  by  loud  cries  and  banging  on  the  front  door.  
They  both  jumped  out  of  bed,  raced  to  the  front  door,  flicked  the  lights  on,  opened  
the  door  and  there  he  was  standing  before  them  half  sleep  shivering  with  his  winter  
coat  zipped  up,  not  knowing  where  he  was.  “I  asked  you  if  they  were  all  inside”,  he  
sharply  charged.  “I  thought  they  all  walked  inside  when  I  opened  the  door.  I  had  the  
baby  in  one  hand,  keys  and  the  diaper  bag  in  the  other.  I  was  using  my  one  free  hand  
to  get  them  all  out  of  the  car  and  inside.    It  was  dark,”  she  replied.  “You  left  my  son  
on  a  freezing  porch!”  he  yelled.        “I  thought  that  he  walked  in  the  house  when  I  
unlocked  the  door,  it  was  dark”,  she  said  as  if  her  breath  was  being  snatched  away.    
“Well  why  didn’t  you  check”,  he  demanded  as  he  invaded  her  personal  space.      Just  
as  she  was  getting  ready  to  respond,  she  felt  a  slight  warmness  running  down  the  
inside  of  her  leg.    “He  seems  to  be  okay.    I  know  that  he  is  scared  and  cold,  but  he’s  
inside  of  the  house  now,  I’ll  put  him  in  the  bed”  she  responded  nervously.      He  
reached  out  his  hand  to  block  her  from  moving.    “  Don’t  touch  him.    I  don’t  trust  you  
to  put  him  in  the  bed.  You  had  a  chance  already.  I’ll  make  sure  he  gets  in  bed.    I  
specifically  asked  if  he  walked  in  the  house  and  you  were  too  lazy  to  check.  You  are  

selfish.  You  always  think  about  yourself  and  your  comfort.    You  are  an  unfit  mother.”      
Her  heart  broke  in  six  pieces  and  fell  on  the  floor  right  in  front  of  her.  
  


