Aylix ran. The darkness around him was complete, blinding. He couldn’t feel anything
except the cold water pouring down his back, and the incessant pounding of his feet on the
ground. It beat along the same rhythm as his head, waves of pain rippling off each impact.
Where am I? His voice was distant, slurred, even in his own thoughts. He forced himself
to stop running and look around. His vision outside of the woods was still blurry, indistinct, and
the sheets of water falling down didn’t help. Nothing was familiar, comforting. What happened?
The ground was growing close. Closer. Closer. . . I was falling. Why? He slipped and fell
onto the ground, his legs giving out on him. Everything's so loud, and. . . I’m so tired.
Aylix’s hand tightened around something in the mud next to him. He looked over at it,
and recoiled. A sword sat next to him, dripping onto the dirt as rain slowly washed a red stain
running down it. Blood? More questions echoed in his head, and he couldn’t answer a single one.
Darkness. Pain. I woke up, and everything. . . hurt. Hurts. His thoughts were jumbled,
fragmented, and he couldn’t piece the puzzle together yet.
“Black hand.” Something whispered in his head, amplifying his headache. “I forgot how
hard the process is on your minds. I knew better than to do this to someone so unprepared. We
have to move. The nightmares won’t wait for you to recover. Sorry for the intrusion.”
Who?
Suddenly, Aylix’s body stood and almost ran into a tree of its own accord. Aylix couldn’t
move his legs, his arms, and his mind was too tired to fight against the takeover.
A low hanging branch whipped across his cheek as he dodged the tree, cutting a thin line
along his jaw. His body ducked, feeling more scratch at his back, and slipped down into the wet

2

ground again. He felt dirt gritting between his teeth as he spat mud, wiping it off his chin with
the back of his hand as the presence faded and Aylix resumed control.
What the Void?
“Damn. I’m not connected enough to keep you moving now that you’re conscious. Keep
trying to think. It will pass. You need to focus. You need to focus.” The voice faintly spoke again.
Aylix stood up and leaned against a tree, catching his breath. Mud mixed with the water
and blood running down his chest. He didn’t think most of it was his. But under it his arms were
glowing? That couldn’t be right. He looked at it and forced himself to push past the clouds in his
mind. What happened? I have to know. And like emerging from a lake, he pushed through it, and
the world fell into focus.
“There we go.” The voice spoke up. “Welcome back to the present.”
Aylix started, sword swinging in front of him, making his head throb more. “Who?”
“Calm down, your body will collapse if you push it to hard. I’m a friend.”
Aylix lowered the sword, arm too tired to hold it up. He clenched his teeth as the
numbness faded and his pain returned. “Great. Now I’m hearing things.”
“You’re not hearing things. I’m what saved your life. Look at yourself.”
His body throbbed, and he reached up to feel the large bloody mess behind his ear. From
the fall. I’m injured from the fall. He looked over at his hand, and saw the scar traced along his
forearm, touching it to ensure its existence. Then he looked down at his chest.

Pale lines and jagged rips had been etched into his light skin. Some were smooth and
thin, others were ragged, savage things. And there were so many. By the allpower of the One. . . I

3

shouldn’t be alive. He grew dizzy, and became aware of how much blood he had lost, mixed in
with the sodden rags that had been his shirt. It. . . It makes sense why I’m hearing things.
“You’re not hearing things. Do none of you know what a Faeiric Bond is anymore?”
The voice in his head grew louder. “You bloody believe in dungeons, and those aren’t even
natural.”
Aylix nodded. The headache hadn’t faded with the confusion and dizziness. “That’s right.
It was a dungeon. . . the dungeon. Oh by the One, the dungeon. Jean, mom and dad, they have to
know. I need to warn them.”
The voice sighed. “Here then. I don’t have time to convince you and keep you alive.”
Aylix’s breath was whisked away as energy flowed through him. Thin white lines traced
along his veins, circulating towards his heart. His blood glowed faintly, and he felt it pulse with
energy, revitalizing him. The glowing light. I. . . didn’t imagine it?
“That’s the most truthful statement you’ve said today. Now move!”
Aylix stopped asking questions and took off, cold rain soaking into his torn clothes. The
trees around him grew more familiar as he charged up the dirt track he had known his whole life.
He lept over a bush, and could see an orange light reflected on the clouds hanging low above the
island. Almost there. More branches snapped across his face, and he ground his teeth.
His memories slowly pieced together now. Swords and axes shattering in his hands as he
smashed them against armor and bone. The blood, welling up from between his fingers as he
cried in the dark, unsteady light of the torches. The dungeons. Monster filled pits that appeared at
random. But that in itself wasn't uncommon. The dungeons had been plaguing the kingdom for
six hundred years. But this one wasn’t normal. Something else is happening.

4

“Truthful statement number two.”
Its not real. Its not real. You’re hallucinating. Ignore it.
His house peeked through the trees in front of him. The door was shut, lights still burning
on the inside. Please let them be okay. Aylix ran up to the door, placing his back against the
seasoned wood. His left hand knocked on the wet surface, and his right hand hid the sword
against his leg. “It’s me. Jean. Let me in!” He pounded on the wood, unable to hear any footsteps
coming to answer as the rain streamed off the roof. “Hey! It’s Ay--”
The door opened behind him, and he pushed past his mother, who gasped. Aylix caught
the edge of the door and slammed it shut. He looked around, keeping the sword tucked behind
him. No one else seemed to be home. “Where is Jean and Dad?”
His mother, Tara, pulled herself together, taking a few deep breaths. “Jean and your
father left for the village as soon as they could. The crash. . . what happened?” She looked at
him, covered in mud and rain dripping down his hair. “Are you okay?”
Aylix grabbed a rain cloak and pulled it over the tattered remnants of his clothes, hoping
she didn’t see the blood. “I’m fine. We need to leave. A dungeon’s over near the south side.”
His mother looked at him. “Aylix Lee Jaymson. Calm down, a dungeon can’t hurt anyone
who stays away from it. The monsters can’t leave.”
Aylix spun around to face her, hand shaking. “No, mom the monsters can leave.”
That single statement made the room grow cold. It had never happened before. The
dungeons had been as regular as clockwork, and never had deviated. The entire military was
built around the fact that they didn’t have to worry about the population.
Now the entire island was on the brink of being massacred.

5

His mother looked at him, paleing. “Aylix, a dungeon can’t be here. There hasn’t been
any signs. Are you sure you’re okay? You aren’t just seeing things?” She reached for him.
Aylix shook his head, backing away from her hand. “No, you don’t understand. I need
you to grab your cloak now. The dungeon collapsed, its not containing the monsters. It let them
all out.” I have a voice in my head telling me what to do. I’m totally okay. I’m going crazy.
“That wouldn’t be my fault.”
Aylix gritted his teeth and pulled away his cloak, revealing the scars crossing over his
skin. His mother covered her mouth. He let it fall and pulled her close. “Mom, look at me. Look
at me. We have to go to the village. I know that something not right. Please.” Aylix ran a hand
through his hair as his mother fought back tears. Maybe I’m wrong. Maybe I’m making that up
too.
“You're not making me up! I know, I was there when the dungeons were created. The
binding broke. Someone broke it.”
What does that even mean?
“Oh by the Four Kings! Is it this hard to understand? They’re manmade, how did you all
forget that! The dungeons are manmade and you won’t listen to me you absolute fool!”
You’re not real!
After a deep breath, his mother looked back up, interrupting his thoughts. “If you say so.
But what about your father and brother? What if they come back here?”
Aylix shook his head and winced as more memories overtook his mind. Demons and
bones grinned at him out of the night. Swords and arrows, spears, saws of iron. He shattered his

6

blade on armor, fragments spinning off into the dark, and buried the broken hilt in the shade’s
ghostly eye socket, screaming.
He clenched his teeth. “I doubt that they will make it through the monsters to get here.”
She quieted, noticing his wince. Her eyes were wet as she looked at him.
Aylix swallowed, hand trembling. “We’re alone, and we need to go. It’s only a matter of
time until something finds u--” A shadow moved next to him, and time slowed as his skin
glowed.
Aylix could feel a change. His shoulders flexing, knees bending, his tired body pushing
away his fatigue. It wasn’t his body though. Movements foreign to him flooded his nerves as the
white lines brightened, and then felt natural as the glow spread across his body. And just like in
the dungeon, he felt the weight of the sword in his hand become more comfortable than any other
tool he had picked up. What is this?
“My muscle memory. Its the only thing that has kept you alive. Use it.”
The voice forced Aylix forward to meet the attack in a fluid, fatal movement.
The dark steel intercepted the man as he jumped through the air, and the sharp point sunk
into flesh. It speared through the man’s spine; he could feel it scrape along bone. The attacker’s
momentum continued to drive himself down the length of the blade, and Aylix forced the sword
point up, and the body slid to a stop against the crossguard. It held the body aloft as a red torrent
flowed down and drenched his hands. He was almost thankful for the warmth on his cold fingers.
The man coughed, blood dripping from his mouth, and began to laugh. “You didn’t see
us coming. The dungeon’s are failing.” He giggled more, eyes fading. “It’s only a matter of time
now.” The thing grew limp, and Aylix let out a slow breath.

7

Aylix felt his muscles grow tired as he expended more of that glowing energy, feeling
the fatigue underneath as he looked over at his mother.. “We have to go. Now.”
His mother jumped as he let the body fall to the floor with a thump. “O. . . Oh. . . Okay.”
***
Aylix opened the door, looking through the rain. The darkness under the trees was made
more absolute by the downpour. Hearing anything was out of the question as well. Not as it falls
through the leaves. He gritted his teeth at the loud patter. Nothing about this is smart.
He motioned for his mother to follow as he walked out into the small clearing in front of
the house, checking the roof behind them. He breathed out again. No threats.
“Visible threats.” The voice spoke up.“You’re an ambush waiting to happen.”
Aylix’s hand tightened on the leather wrapped hilt. Shut up. You. Are. Not. Real!
“Then what am I? Still think I’m fake after that? You almost got killed by a wraith.”
My imagination. Something I’m hearing because I hit my head. Something i’m
hallucinating, making up. Stress. All of it together. He flinched as a raindrop fell into his eye.
“You’re not smart enough to create something like me. The only reason your head hurts
is because the bonding process almost fried your blood. And what is this then?” His body pulsed
white again. “You have no explanation for too many things.”
Aylix ducked under a tree, working his jaw. So lets say I do believe you. Explain what’s
happening to me.
“Yes. I established a bond with you to save your life. Luckily for you, you are receptive to
Fae. Its rare now that the old kingdom lost all Aetherics during the Ascension, but you are
barely able to support the process. Barely. You were unconscious for most of the dungeon.”

8

Wait, you know about. . . you’re a Fae?
The voice huffed. A concentration of light built up on the back of his hand, and he made
out the outline of a a Fae underneath his skin. A small orb of white fire, like a willow-the-wisp,
bearing an odd symbol flickering between the flames, unique to each one. They were common
throughout the kingdom, used as autonomous servants, working for a little energy given to them
by the family. But. . .
You can talk!
“Of course we can talk. People today tend to listen less.” The Fae vanished from the
back of his hand, and the white energy spread out across his body. “So--”
“Aylix.” His mother interrupted his thoughts, pulling him into the present. He looked
down at her, and she swallowed, face pale. “What. . . how did you get those scars? And the
sw-sword.”
The voice quited.
Aylix throat tightened, and he remained silent for a while until responding. “I fell into the
dungeon. The airship created a hole into it when we crashed. I woke up inside and had to fight
my way out, and even the I was chased.” And some weird Fae is inside me and kept me alive.
She was visibly shaking now, and that made him walk on the edge of breaking. His
mother had always been the strong one. Always. You aren’t supposed to see your mother afraid.
He pulled her along, trying to get her mind off it. “Have you seen anyone else today?”
His mother tightened her lips and shook her head. “No, no one’s braved the storm
tonight. But the Kyl’s farm is just ahead. We should see if they are alright.”

9

Aylix nodded, and the voice inside him was silent, but it mirrored his sense of doubt and
fear as they continued down the main road. Something bads going on. Really bad.
The voice remained quiet, but its sense of fear was growing faster than his own.
They approached the last corner before the Kyl’s house, and light flickered through the
heavy rain and growing mist. He paused, arm draped around his mother, and listened.
To a dull roar, a cackle of burning wood.
Aylix’s heart dropped, and his mother paled. He handed her the dark rain cloak. “Wait
here. Just in case.” He let her go and ran, turning the last corner, his face growing warm.
Blue, unnatural fire enveloped the Kyl house, creating a wave of steam as the rain boiled
in its fruitless attempt to quench the blaze. He stepped forward and flinched as an explosion of
heat rolled over him. When he looked back up, the barn had caught fire as well. And in front of
the fire, a man stood, back to him.
Glowing wings spread out from his back, a small glowing harness connecting them to his
body. The rain and steam glittered brilliantly in white light around him as it splattered off his
armor, and a hood covered he man’s head. Across his body, a long, thick, black jacket fell his
knees, and black boots were strapped on his feet.
Aylix’s jaw dropped. That’s a Wing Corp uniform. The Guilds are here. They’re here!
He stood, hand outstretched, ready to call out. The military can protect her.
“Wait you fool!”
Aylix foot kicked something, and he looked down into the lifeless eyes of Mr. Kyl.
It was then he saw the bodies scattered across the yard.

10

Men, women, children. He recognized the rest of the Kyls, the Zernals. Even the
Redmers newborn, clutched in her mother's arms. Bile rose in his throat, and he stared in
disbelief. He could seen almost every family from the outlying farms dead on the cold ground,
staining the dirt red.
How? They still should’ve been able to fight back. This is slaughter. No monsters were
visible, living or dead. It doesn’t add up. The creatures couldn’t have done this. Its too. . .
One of the bodies moved, crying in pain. It was Ildred, a boy only a few years younger
than Aylix. His body was covered in blood, and he could see more welling up between his
fingers from a hole in his stomach. The man looked over to the boy, and walked over to him, and
kneeled down, inspecting the wound.
Ildred looked up, crying as he tried to push himself away. “No. Please.”
Everything pieced together in a moment, and Aylix’s eyes filled with horror. Too
efficient.
And in another second, a greatsword materialized in the man’s hands with a bright flash,
decapitating the wounded boy.
Aylix looked out at the man, clothed in a uniform. He’s causing all this. It has to be him.
You did this. His body glowed white, this time of Aylix’s own will. Before he knew it, he was
out from the shadows, sprinting across the gore-covered grass.
The man spun around, and Aylix didn’t give him the time to react. Blow after blow
rained down on the man, and he barely kept the greatsword parrying and deflecting Aylix
attacks. The dark sword in Aylix’s hands reflected the blue light of the flickering fire, and he
spun around, moving from swing to thrust to counter. The man scrambled to defend himself, and

11

managed to keep Aylix’s sword from any vital areas. However, Aylix’s blade quickly became
stained with blood, nicking the man in the chinks of his armor.
He forced the soldier back, and suddenly stepped to the side. The man’s larger sword cut
air, and stopped, repositioning quickly, but Aylix stepped again, meeting the blade as it came
around. He pushed into the man’s guard, too close to use such a large weapon. He heard the
man’s breath hitch, and Aylix’s jaw tightened, preparing to slit the liars throat.
A glow erupted in the man’s hand as he shouted at Aylix, words lost in the roar of the
fire.
The voice in Aylix head erupted into a scream of anger and pain at the same time the
light blinded him. “Aetheric! YOU BETRAYED HIM! I’ll kill you. I’LL KILL YOU!”
And then the world around him vanished as he was pushed back through the air at
incredible speed, smashing into a tree.
***
Aylix felt his body being carried. His back screamed in agony, and he barely hung onto
consciousness. Voices shouted around him, and he could here his mother telling someone what
had happened. The village. We made it to the village. He took a deep breath, and more pain
wracked his chest. He could tell that most of his ribs were bruised, if not broken. The vial.
Where’s the vial?
He lifted his hand slowly, and felt his fingers tap on wet glass. The bottle contained some
of the last red liquid he had found in the dungeon. It heals. That’s right. I remember. He opened
it, and raised it to his lips. Internal wounds were the worst, as the potion couldn’t be directly
applied. But as it rolled down his throat, the pain faded, and he opened his eyes.

12

People surrounded him, peering out into the darkness. He wasn’t in the village yet, but he
could see it below a sthey crested the final hill. Lights flooded the small town, and he could see
men on the walls, peering out into the darkness. He could see scratches and hack marks along the
top of the walls from claws and blades. But they held.
Aylix breathed out, and the fatigue he had been fighting off for hours finally rolled over
him. He sagged into the arms of those carrying him; some quiet voices comforted him as they
helped him along, farther into the village.
But he couldn’t shake the feeling of being watched.
He glanced over at the gatekeeper's house, where the old man had greeted him yesterday
before he boarded the airship. The door had been ripped apart, and the cold, uncaring rain was
dutifully washing away the red stain running down the wall.
He heard the voice, the Fae’s voice, echoing in his head faintly. “I’ll kill you!”
The other people in the group helped his mother down next to him and started back to the
gate. Aylix looked over to the rest of them, inspecting their soggy clothes. A few carried bows,
and dull arrowheads shinned in the firelight, making him wince. He had pulled too many out of
himself as he had fought his way through the dungeon.
My sword. “Where’s my sword?” He looked around pushing those who tried to keep him
sitting. A man walked up with it, and hesitated.
“Are you sure you need it lad? You don’t look like you can do too much right now.” He
quieted as Aylix glared at him and took the blade.
“It stays with me.”
The man walked away, hands up, “Fine by me kid.”

13

“Aetheric. Liar.” The Fae whispered venomously.
What do you mean Aetheric? Like a priest? The One and the heavenly Aether?
“No. . . murderer. . . all those years ago. . .”
“Aylix! Tara!” A voice cut through the crowd, and a man pushed through to them.
Aylix’s heart fell as he recognized Grant, the smith, and a good friend of the family. Not Jean or
his father.
Grant hugged Tara. “I’m glad to see you two okay. Its been hell. You are lucky to get
here between their assaults. They withdrew a half hour ago. They’ll be back any time. Now I
need you to get in the house, that’s where the women and children are. Mine are as well.” His
eyes hid something. Something dangerous. “Tara, before you go I--”
“That sounds good, Grant. Thank you.” Aylix met his eyes and shook his head. I’ll hear
what you need to say.
Grant swallowed and nodded. He motioned to a nearby house. It was boarded up, a
ramshackle job, but he could see children peering through the wooden slats, their mothers and
grandmothers pulling them back occasionally, only to sneak back a few seconds later, eyes
curious.
His mother shook her head, but Aylix cut her off. “It would be better If you go, mom.”
She looked back at him and nodded. “Okay. Be safe.”
Aylix watched his mother as she nodded and walked over to the door. The people inside
started to move furniture away from the door, un-barricading the entrance. She was still shaking,
trying to keep a strong face, but he could see the truth in her eyes. She’s afraid. He looked
around at all the adults, watching a young man throw up over the edge of the wall. They’re all

14

afraid. This has never happened before. He turned back to Grant, palming the sword hilt in his
hands.
He eyed him, pulling out a small set of interconnected rings. “What do you need?”
Aylix looked back to the gate. “What happened?”
Grant fiddled with the metal, rubbing the rainwater along them, like they needed to be
cleaned. “I’ll assume you’ve figured out that a dungeon appeared. What about it?”
“Why wasn’t their any warning? How come we didn’t figure it out until--”
“Until we watched the airship get torn apart by that invisible beast?” His left hand
wrapped around the worn handle of his hammer. “No signs. Not the birds leaving, the Fae
disappearing. . .” The Fae inside Aylix shifted at that statement. “. . . the jumpy wildlife, nothing.
We tried to send a group to the crash site, and found that it had busted open the entrance. They
returned with more bodies than people, and not even half of the outlying farms made it in, may
Hearthhome bless their souls.” He paused, fear hidden behind his eyes. “And the phoenixes were
found dead”
Aylix’s heartbeat increased. The phoenixes were their only communication. “All of
them?”
Grant shook his head. “All six were accounted for. We are cut off from the other islands.”
Aylix ran a hand through his wet hair, mind racing. “What's happened here so far?”
Grant squinted. “I just told--”
“The attack specifics. Please.”
The smith breathed out before speaking softly. “The walls have held off the smaller ones,
but these were made against rabid animals, not these. . .things. I can’t even put a name to them,

15

beasts and bonemen, shadows. . .” He shivered. “We placed the women and children in the
houses. I don’t know how long we’ll last without help. This isn’t supposed to happen.” His fist
enveloped the metal rings, shaking. “I. . . I can’t do anything to protect them. We’re just
waiting.”
Waiting to die. Aylix stood there, trying to process what he had heard. Nothings going
right. No warning, no help. The military-The voice in his head spoke quietly, painfully. “Murderer. . .”
Aylix’s hand shook, understanding the implication. “Grant, the military is already here.”
The smith’s hands twitched, dropping the rings. “Really? That’s incredible! Are you
sure?”
Aylix grabbed the man’s shoulders. “Grant, they are the one’s making sure we didn’t
figure out about the dungeon. I fought a man over the corpse’s of three farms over near Kyl’s.
Full Guild uniform. Wing Core and all.”
Grant’s face fell. “That. . . can’t be right. Why would the military. . . he wasn’t-0”
“He was Grant, they are behind it, I know it. I fell into the dungeon, the barrier had been
cut apart somehow. Its them. It has to be them. They set this all up.”
Grant grabbed his shirt and pulled it closer. “So what do you expect me to do, huh? What
do I say to the rest of them? That the military is controlling the monster’s or something?”
The Fae snarled. “Murderer. . . LIAR!” His voice was jumbled, fragmented.
Aylix realized he wasn’t imagining the feeling of being watched. Controlling the
monsters.

16

He stepped to his side, and an arrow whistled past his ear, burying its metal head into the
smith’s chest with a wet crunch. The man took a few short, shocked breaths, looking down at it,
and then up into Aylix’s eyes. A second arrow tore through his throat, and he fell, gurgling.
As the body fell, Aylix felt his head pulse and arms glow. He barely managed to dodge
an arrow spinning towards his heart, and then jumped behind cover, feeling more arrows sink
into the wood next to him. He looked out, and the entire hill overlooking the village was filled
with blue-eyed skeletons, pulling back bowstrings. And in the middle of it all, he could see the
man, hand raised up, and fall with a flash of lightning. The military betrayed us.
The Fae in his head screamed again, broken by the past.
The rain was replaced by arrows.
All around him he could hear screams erupt into existence, and then cut off, followed by
the impact of a body on stone in an irregular beat to a fatal drum. His eyes looked through a
window, and met a little girl’s, Grant’s little girl, crying, screaming. Aylix couldn’t hear her
voice, but he could read her lips.
Daddy! Daddy please get up! Daddy please!
In that silent scream, Aylix heard helplessness for the first time.
Something hit the gate, making the wood crack loudly, and all other sound vanished from
the village, the last dying breath escaping bloody lips. He peered around the corner, trying to
block out the little girl’s haunting look. Another impact and the wooden doors shattered, letting a
large shadow through. The shadow, horns gleaming in the sputtering torchlight, sniffed,
inspecting the arrow-riddled bodies scattered around the gate.

17

Something moved right next to him, and Aylix almost took his mother’s head off. She
froze, eyeing the blade tickling the underside of her chin. Aylix’s hand shook at what he almost
had done, pulling it away. “Why aren’t you inside the house?”
She looked at him, eyes full of pain, and he noticed the arrow sticking out of her right
shoulder.
Aylix looked at it, and he finally felt scared. What can I do? Against all of this? I’m a
bloody farmer! I don’t even know what to do. . .
The voice in his head whispered. “Save as many as you can. When you can. Try.”
Aylix’s hand dug into the hilt of his sword.“We need to move.”
He pulled his mother to his feet, carefully walking her over to the other side of the house
as blood seeped into her dress. The movement was masked by the rain, but it had slowly started
to stop, the highpoint of the storm finally past. It was growing quieter, and the minotaur behind
him louder.
The beast roared, forcing Aylix into motion, pulling his mother behind him as he dashed
across the street. Arrows fell around them, sparking off the stones in quick bursts of light, and he
prayed to the One to protect them.
Aylix saw the arrow spinning towards him from the hill. Out of a foreign instinct, his arm
raised up, sword swinging out to intercept it. But the steel sailed just behind the shaft, and the
arrow cut across his collarbone, barely missing his left arm.
His mother was crying as they ran into cover, the arrow grinding against her shoulder
blade. His hand reached out to grab it, slipping on the blood as he carefully gripped it right next

18

to her body. Aylix hesitated, then snapped it off, leaving the point inside. She cried out in agony
and he ground his teeth, tears running down his face. “I’m sorry, I’m so sorry.”
Out of his pocket, he pulled the last vial of the red liquid he had found in the dungeon. It
accelerated the healing process, but still left scars, as testified by his ravaged body. He poured
the rest of the potion over the wound, and it flared up in a glowing red light. The skin and muscle
reformed, and pushed the bloody arrowhead out to clatter along the ground.
Aylix dropped the empty glass to his side, looking down at the fresh cut along his chest.
Not deep, it should stop bleeding soon. He glanced at the black sword laying next to him. That
was stupid. How could I ever block an arrow? But he felt like he had done it before. No, the Fae
has.
The demon rounded the corner where they had just been, sniffing at the bloody trail from
his mother. Its blue eyes looked up and met Aylix’s, not even a hundred feet away.
He stood up, blade back in his hand. “Mom, stay in cover, but get as close as you can to
the edge of the island.” She stood up slowly, testing her shoulder. “Move!”
She scrambled away as the beast charged. Aylix felt the clumsiness in his muscles
disappear, but barely could see the glow across his arms. It’s getting quicker and more natural to
transition to whatever this is, this bond. He bent his knees, bracing for the beast. And I don’t care
if I don’t even know what I’m getting into.
Aylix’s mind rushed back into the present, feeling the rain run down his head. Every
movement felt natural, the sword in his tired hands just another tool he had used for his entire
life. And he met the demon, the minotaur, head on.

19

Its arms crashed down, but he had already moved, sliding past it on the wet stone. He
hacked at its thick hide along its side, trying to stay behind it.
As its blood wet the blade, the inscription running the length of the fuller flared to life,
glowing dark red. It pulsed, and he felt energy being sucked out of the monster, strengthening
him. He almost fell over in surprise as the energy made his fatigue disappear.
The minotaur turned much quicker than its size suggested, a fist thundering towards him.
Aylix planted his feet, one of his heels sliding back to wedge itself against the foundation of the
house behind him, and his sword blurred as it deflected the blow, barely in time.
The beast’s fist smashed into the wood next to him, sending cracks across the entire wall,
making screams erupt inside. Aylix ground his teeth, pulling his sword back to drive it deep into
its hand, severed tendons snapping back up in its arm, ripping the brown fur as their tension
released. Now, turn and-“Jump!”
Aylix didn’t hesitate, forcing his body up off the ground just in time to dodge the
minotaurs second hand as it came around to crush his legs.
The beast man bellowed as its attack failed. Aylix landed as it backed away from him,
huffing and growling. The minotaur lowered its head, nostrils flaring, aiming to drive its horns
deep into his ribs.
Aylix jammed his sword against the wooden beam behind his shoulder, bracing it.
And the minotaur charged, missing Aylix as he ducked, and drove itself onto the point of
the blade so hard it shattered its skull, emerging from the back of its head covered in lifeblood.

20

The blade glowed again, and Aylix body felt like he had just woken up from days of rest, energy
flooding his body.
He stood back up, wrenching the sword out from where it had been buried all the way to
the crossguard, and the body fell over, blue eyes extinguished. Now it’s his turn.
He was surprised when no arrows came down as he dashed across the street for the fourth
time. He carefully peered back around the corner, looking up at the hill. Not a single pair of
piercing blue stares met his nervous look, and he turned back to the houses.
Aylix crept along, gaining speed as he rounded corner after corner with no sight of his
mother. “Mom. . . mom. . . mom!” He whispered as loudly as he dared, peering around as his
heart rate picked up.
He almost missed her, crouching next to a house, looking at something. He walked up,
reaching out to her. “Mom, I don’t know where the archers went, we need to--” He choked when
his eyes found what she was looking at.
A body, covered in a bloodred sheet. Out of it fell wet blond hair. Jean’s blond hair.
The sinking suspicion Aylix had felt before talking to the smith fell back onto him,
releasing a numbing cold across his mind. The rain stopped falling as hard, and the last of the
torches flickered out as water drenched the world in a mist of tears.
The broken, bloody spear laying next to the body said it all. He went with the rescue
party. Of course he volunteered to look for me. His little brother. Aylix looked down at the
bloody sword in his hands. Always needing saving.
Aylix looked back at his older brother. Idiot.

21

Aylix found himself running through the streets, crying, looking around for the man,
daring an arrow to come take him away. His fear and sadness turned to anger with each pounding
step he took, each shaking breath, each wave of pain. He screamed into the dark.“Coward!
Bastard!”
The faces of their mothers peered out, trying to be strong as the rain outside washed away
hope like the blood running along the cobblestones, watching him scream into the night.
Suddenly, light blinded Aylix again, and he felt something huge smash into his chest.
The next thing he could see was the man hovering above him, as something disturbed the
clouds around his shimmering, mystical wings. “Now you, boy, my dog remembers you. He
smashed the ship you were on apart. Take pride in surviving him once. You won’t do it again.”
The large shape shifting in the clouds turned visible, and a large serpent looked at him,
just like it had when he had looked out on the airship. Its mouth began to glow with blue fire.
“Aetheric. . .” The Fae’s voice hissed.
Aylix tried to stand up, but his leg had been broken again by whatever had hit him. He
snarled at the man. “Fine then, take me and burn in the Void.”
The man shook his head and pointed at the center of the village. “No, I’ll deal with you
personally. You were a good opponent. My dog can do the rest. And after today, the world will
change. Just like it was supposed to do six hundred years ago. The dungeons will be used to their
full potential. Take pride you get to see it the first use of their power.” The great serpent’s mouth
opened and blue fire began to flicker between its teeth, and the wind was pulled towards its
mouth.

22

Aylix’s anger was replaced by fear. Thunder drummed across the clouds, and the world
began to turn blue. “No. Wait!” Aylix reached out towards the rest of the village. “Mom!”


