I was “in.” Jimmy had invited me for pizza and bottles of red at Salernos. Damn flattering
for a new guy, even though by that point we’d been working together for two months.
Few training officers said shit to me during the academy, Jimmy included. “Cultural
Diversity” was his module, which opened my eyes to a lot of things. So it was serious damn luck
my then being assigned to Jimmy’s station. We’re right where the West Side, which is nearly all
black, becomes the near Northwest Side, which can be nearly all Hispanic, especially around
Humboldt Park where Sacramento Boulevard runs into North Avenue with all the taquerias
selling tripe and tongue. I’d never heard of such kind of food. In that cadet class, Jimmy
explained how we could see Dude on the street and think Dude was black when Dude actually
was Puerto Rican and might not comprehend all our questions and directives. For that extra duty
pay—double-time, Jimmy had to say all this to my cadets group but didn’t fraternize with us
during breaks. Just pulled out his cellphone and leaned against the wall quietly talking.
Yet there we were at one A.M. around that back table facing the front door at Salernos
about twenty blocks beyond our precinct. This followed my first double-shift—Jimmy, me, and
three other guys, all vets and no rookies, whose wives or girlfriends were asleep, or like me,
were newly single and hated their empty condo or bungalow right after work. It’s depressing to
be alone immediately after upholding order and peace in the streets for sixteen hours. Gotta

Sixfold/Fiction Submission: “Jimmy and Me”

2

celebrate with another law-abiding human being, or, at least with us at Salernos, do some facetime with comrades and relish the fact that you’re looking at each other and speaking to each
other under normal circumstances. My fiancé had just moved out and I was avoiding my rented
brownstone walking distance from Oak Street Beach. We’d met when I too made sweet coin,
before I’d even applied to be a cop, one of the city’s harder jobs to land, even for someone like
me with two college degrees. Application to final interview with a CPD lieutenant took thirteen
months. “Hey man, we the only brothers from the hood drinkin’ wine anywhere,” Jimmy
laughed that first night at Salernos, even though I’m not from the hood.
Guys came and went at Salernos, but Jimmy and me were there every other week after
our eight A.M. to midnight. Jimmy did our beat eleven years after growing up in our actual
precinct but then not getting through Loyola. He said organic chemistry was eating his lunch and
dinner when he realized he already had enough college hours for CPD. But his ease with the
wheel and knowing when to leave the car and when to stay in, when to radio for coverage, and
when to “slam a nigger” to the pavement so you avoided nuetralizing someone, told me that I
needed to study this guy like our young corrupt alderman study Mayor Daley. My study was for
a legit cause though. Serious further damn luck my being paired with Jimmy.
This was three years ago, after a fifteen-year detour through law school and lawyering,
when my cop idea came back. I’d been a lawyer for six. Growing up in Buffalo Grove way out
past O’Hare made this more possible, my passing the bar and making six-figures. And all this is
why I’m a cop now. In my third-grade class, my least integrated grade, I was one of two black
kids. That’s a school pic I have. The others are in my mom’s cabinets somewhere. My teacher’s
or the photographer’s awkwardness shows because they spaced me and the other black kid four
kids apart right in the middle of the middle row, despite our being taller than everyone else, as if
to apologize, prove that they were going out of their way to blend us into the group. I lost contact

Sixfold/Fiction Submission: “Jimmy and Me”

3

with that kid by high school. My father told me it wasn’t about who wasn’t there, but about who
was. And I was there, so that’s what mattered. Student life was somewhat diverse in high school,
and then fairly diverse during undergrad down in Urbana-Champaign. Far less so at Notre Dame
Law where my father’s advice was a dual-edged sword. The helpful edge was that his wise
words let me handle my business in that old-school, white-ass environment. I was there. I’d
made it, and for right then, that’s what mattered. My goal was a grad degree in social work with
some electives in law and criminal justice and then to join a police force somewhere. I’d be a
rare cop who at least partially understood why people were doing the crazy shit they were doing.
I could help them stop. But my father, a corporate lawyer at All-State, said that I could do more
overall good with a full J.D. I was young. And I believed him. I went all the way through law
school. Functioned well because of how I’d been raised. My plan was to practice law only long
enough to put away some money while figuring out how I could best use my J.D. to assist those
who actually needed assistance.
The Chicago firm that took me, a blessing because I did want to come home and help
those who looked like me but didn’t grow up like me, claimed they were moving to diversify
their clients and cases and not just focus on intellectual property law. I was to be part of that
evolution, their taking on more civil and criminal cases. Some even pro bono. Again, I believed
my elders. Never happened. All we did was defend rich people. Our lakeview downtown office
was on the forty-seventh floor. The kind of job Buffalo Grove kids are supposed to get, maybe
even some of its few black kids. From the south windows near my desk, I saw the State Street
Corridor, with all those ghetto-rise projects that Mayor Daley’s mayor father built in the fifties,
lining each side of the Dan Ryan. Backed up traffic and even speeding cars can be shooting
targets for bored Four Corner Hustlers camped on the project roofs. Now I hear the calls for all
that shit on our radios. If I looked long enough, I saw the steel mills in Indiana. Immediately

Sixfold/Fiction Submission: “Jimmy and Me”

4

below, rooftops were little squares and rectangles covering up some of what I read about every
morning in the Sun-Times on my subway ride. Standing at those windows, I barely believed that
such beatings, shootings, stabbings, killings, and rapes went on down there somewhere in that
benign brown and gray grid. Splotches of blood red might as well have oozed up from building
tops and coated the streets and sidewalks. Many afternoons, I paused from my work to pull the
newspaper back out. Usually there were photos, different photos from the paper’s website. It
seemed egotistical to ignore deaths like these deaths.
I’d been there five-plus years when the two founding partners, both black guys, one of
them the guy who’d tickled my ear with the shtick about our taking on more social justice cases,
set up a popcorn canister with a slit in its top near our elevator. Taped to the wall was a sign:
Help Our Young Brothers and Young Sisters Better Their Lives. Brochures with cheery darkskinned faces, no Caucasian or Asian kids, mind you, grinning for the benefiting social agency,
were fanned out on the table around the container. Several times when I walked by without
jamming a folded check or big bill into that slit, my coworkers, black and non-black, glanced at
me and then the floor or the elevator wall as if I’d just screamed that I never visit my mom on
Mother’s Day. Very soon the collective weight of everyone else’s fives and tens and personal
checks along with the quarters and dimes that their children collected and sent with them in
sandwich bags anchored the cylinder to the table and the table to the floor. Bump that table and
you bruised your leg. Someone duct-taped the lid in place to keep any janitors from stealing. The
bosses emptied it every afternoon. This aggravated me—wealthy people, wealthy black people, a
decent percentage of us at that firm, “doing our part to give back” to those they pitied for having
no prayer of ever having their perfect lives. Fuck, I was one of those wealthy black persons. Did
I know any women using W.I.C. cards for diapers and formula? No. Did I ride public transit
without wanting to? No. Had I worried about the public schools in my neighborhood when Gina

Sixfold/Fiction Submission: “Jimmy and Me”

5

and I discussed having kids? No. Did all this fortune make me who I was? Yes. My black
colleagues’ social status, and mine too, I admit, convinced us that we had succeeded. Like we’d
proved to White America that not all black people are trash. We can do something besides
demand reparations and sell crack and write “bitch and ho” rap songs. Ours was the only blackowned law firm in the city.
Six months after the collection canister went up, on a day with just a cloudy wall outside
those floor-to-ceiling windows and nothing visible at street level, the bosses shut everything
down on a city holiday when none of us would be in court. We cleared a play area. The charity
kids were coming. Partitions and desks and file cabinets lined two sides of our floor and the east
windows facing the lake as well as those facing south over the “bad neighborhoods” where many
of the kids lived. Coworkers put out homemade cookies. The children gave us handwritten
Thank-You notes, folder-sized cards cut from construction paper with marker drawings and
inscriptions. At “Go!” we all dashed around on our shag carpet for Tag. After that was Indoor
Ultimate Frisbee. I did the first round of games but then peeled away and sat my ass on top of a
cleared-off desk. Leaning back on a window, I watched. A white gal from Oregon, a paralegal
who went to school here, stood near me and a little girl with cornrows. I could see the woman
from the side, her smiling, open mouth taking up her whole face when the little girl turned to
both of us with a Nerf ball in her hand. She reared back to throw but tried to stop when she
noticed my folded arms in my lap. Airborne by the time my arms were unfolded and my hands
up, the ball dropped like a sinkerball and glanced off my left elbow. It bounced right to the
Oregoneon and off her pointed shoe, rolling to a stop midway between her and the little girl.
They both lunged at the ball and then looked up at me right before their hands collided, as if I
was the one who supposed to be retrieving the toss. The throw had been for me. The woman
scooped the ball off the floor and checked me out again. We were acquainted but not friends.

Sixfold/Fiction Submission: “Jimmy and Me”

6

When I didn’t move, she turned to the girl and sang: “Ready? Here it comes!” She swung her
arm, ball in hand, back and forth, mobilizing for an underhand toss. Her throw arched file
cabinet-high before the girl trapped it against her chest under her chin. The woman’s eyes found
me again. I stared back until she looked away and ambled off after the girl, already darting
toward another adult.
If I said that was what set me off for good, I wouldn’t be telling the truest truth. But that
sixth year of my six lawyer years was like this over and over. Sure I had compassion for the
“disadvantaged in the inner city,” but the guilt trips at every charity event hacked me the rest of
the way off. What about my colleagues’ thirty-five-dollar lunches? And company time spent
sifting through websites for timeshares in the Bahamas, and then every afternoon zooming home
up the Kennedy in their Jags and BMWs? Bullshit—the rich “giving” to the poor, like anointing
Bill Gates the patron saint of generosity while he’s living in a $100 million dollar crib. The
hypocrisy worsened at our Christmas dinner and toy drive at the YMCA on Wacker Drive. The
final Monday of that year, I wrote the founding partners a resignation letter right after my
acceptance letter from CPD arrived. The letterhead read: We Serve and Protect. It’s on our
squad cars too. I remembered it from ’83 or ’84 when my dad took me to a Bulls game. PreMichael Jordan, tickets were easy. We walked past a squad car there on Madison in front of the
old stadium. The words jumped out at me. Shouldn’t it have been obvious that police serve us
and protect us? That slogan stuck with me from then on every time I heard about Chicago and its
issues on the news and in the paper. So much hard evidence substantiating how many people in
this city really do need protection and service. That’s what I was thinking of, that slogan and all
those terrible stories, when I printed out the CPD application.
The older lawyer called me into his office and exhaled when he picked my letter up off
his desk. I hadn’t given a reason, only that my last day would be the last day of February. “This

Sixfold/Fiction Submission: “Jimmy and Me”

7

just isn’t what I’m supposed to be doing,” I said when he asked about my quitting. Nowhere in
my letter had I explained anything about using up my life to defend people infinitely richer than
me. Aiding them to retain the ‘fiduciary viability’ of their ‘intellectual assets’ had become too
much. It’s not ideas that need defending. How about bodies and lives and souls? I’d been waiting
for us to defend someone who actually needed defending. Sure my salaries were great but it was
too late for me to market myself to a different firm, one that centered itself on criminal law and
civil law defense to keep that kind of law honest for everyone. My thirtieth-seventh birthday was
coming up. No patience to stall my career change any longer. It was then or never.
So the academy started that summer. Jimmy introduced himself at orientation, paying no
more attention to one of us than to the rest of us, strutting around our classroom with a physique
ripped enough that I began running the lakefront and doing pushups with my toes on the stone
benches where those old sun-wrinkled guys play chess, not counting the reps until my pecs hurt,
the way Muhammad Ali conditioned himself—if they don’t burn, they don’t count. I cut down to
one beer a week.
My parents reacted like my coworkers, except that my mom asked tons of questions. My
dad only had one, something about me thinking about this new job in terms of “having a family.”
Most people at the firm were married with kids, and to me, their families made them more selfcentered. No one in the world existed except their own husbands and their own wives. No
children really mattered, other than those in their house. Not the kids crunching glass bits under
their sneakers playing kickball against project breezeway walls or the ones expelled from the
Boys Club near the old Henry Horner projects for tripping each other or throwing gang signs
during basketball. None of them, the lawyers and founding partner lawyers, or even the middleclass clerks, paralegals, and legal assistants, knew much about “our community.” Community
should be all of us who deal with what we deal with. It doesn’t matter if you have a Ph. D or

Sixfold/Fiction Submission: “Jimmy and Me”

8

dropped out of middle school because what White America sees is just Blackness. That’s why
we gotta see ourselves as the same. But hardly anyone there did. Those charity drives just let us
feel less guilty about having “made it” when so many others hadn’t. My friends didn’t get it
either. During training, their only question was: “Do you like it?” Their American Dream is
merely something that you like. If it makes you happy, then it’s all-good. “Yeah, I like it,” I
always said, tempted to articulate the seventeen steps involved in disassembling, cleaning, and
reassembling my sidearm Glock or how I lost count of the incisions observed while taking notes
at a live autopsy when the doctor rolled the guy’s face back up over his forehead to show us what
a hollow-point bullet does to a cheekbone. I wanted as well to explain why the barrier in back of
squad cars is a plastic shield rather than wire mesh or all the types of bullets my “undershirt” can
block. But I never said any of this to any of them because there’s no reason to tell people
something they already don’t give a shit about and don’t even know they don’t give a shit about.
With friends or family now, I imagine I’m still an aloof lawyer and ramble on about whatever is
in the news that we all have an opinion on. I don’t educate anyone about our strategy at the
ABLA Homes to halt foot traffic at peak crack hours. I wish I could just laugh and joke or chat
about the Bears or the new tollway or going prices for acre-lots up in Door County, but like one
English professor of mine once said, Nothing is at stake. She said that’s what any worthwhile
story has—something to make you give more than a rat’s ass. Whatever pattern my coworkers
chose for their new shower tiles or whether they put their kid in French or Latin, everything
would be fine.
But things won’t be fine no matter what in the neighborhoods that I patrol. Life and death
are on the line there twenty-four/seven. That’s what Jimmy helped me with. “Don’t freeze up,”
he stated when our radio spit out orders, new places to speed to and intervene. “Just relax so you
can do what you gotta do.”

Sixfold/Fiction Submission: “Jimmy and Me”

9

The night he died was another of our doubles, both of us working the Visine and gas
station coffee. In two hours we should have been inhaling another midnight deep dish sausage,
peppers, and basil, and sucking down more California Zin. It was a noise/gang-activity complaint
at a park, not a park like the postcard ones along the lakefront that my former colleagues are still
gazing down at from their office. Those milk carton-shaped apartments called “two-flats”
rimmed every side of this park with a clump of withery birch trees in the middle. We doubleparked in front of an El Dorado and a rusting Corvair.
I followed Jimmy between them and over the curb. He nodded at the vehicles, “These
two fuckers ain’t gettin’ away.”
The shot, I didn’t hear. When highly stressed, my ears go numb like I’m in some giant
wind tunnel. It was like that even as a kid playing sports in a game’s most intense moments. I see
but don’t hear. Jimmy and me were twenty yards from them. At least ten of them. No one was
doing anything illegal that I saw. Not even any marijuana smell. Late summer but cool and not
too humid. Tons of people were out. Those guys were all GDs, Gangster Disciples. Each one,
somewhere on their person, donned stripes and sashes of red and black. Red skullcaps for
several. Others had the usual black bandannas hanging from back pockets, folded triangular tips
swaying around in the breeze. They were grouped up by the playground rocking horses and
monkey bars mingled among the few trees. Most turned to us at the same time, as if we were the
disruptive ones. We stepped around a wooden bench. There’s some famous or infamous battle
commander phrase. It blinked on it my head right then: ‘Don’t shoot until you see the whites of
their eyes.’ Or some shit like that. The whites of some of their eyes is what I saw as some part of
Jimmy brushed my arm. I remember no sound. I can’t describe any gunfire or flash. Only him on
the ground. Jimmy’s eyes had no whites. Just his lids going up and down. Eyes all irises. Then I

Sixfold/Fiction Submission: “Jimmy and Me”

10

was on my knees touching Jimmy’s neck for a pulse. His running blood warmed my hand. It was
all in the speaker crevices of my radio too while I called for backup.
“They done got one!” That I did hear. But the yell wasn’t as loud as I thought a victory
cry would be. Less celebratory than mere declaration of fact. A declaration I heard even though
the bullet’s discharge into Jimmy was the far louder sound. I expected another shot, that I’d be
lying there next to Jimmy, bleeding with him all over that scrubby grass with those thugs
mocking us in their pell-mell scram. But no more shots, that I heard. The only sound was
Jimmy’s clipped exhaling moving the grass blades. He’d rolled onto his side. Air only went out
of his mouth. None was going back in.
By law that many people wearing those same colors in the same place can be gang
activity. So I too would have called the police if I lived in one of those flats across the street. No
normal person wants to look out their front door and see gangbangers. Or that call could have
been a gag and we were shooting gallery ducks our first second out of the squad car. Those
fleeing thugs were heavy enough, despite all of them being skinny punks, to shake the soil under
Jimmy and me. I felt the movement through my bent knees.
Something I also never heard was Jimmy say that he loved or liked this job. All this He
died doing what he loved is truly bullshit.
I could say something truer than almost everyone who has cycled through the podium
four rows in front of me. And I’ve known Jimmy barely two years. It’s all his non-officer
friends, and old teachers, and the minister from the church his parents raised him in, and his
relatives, who, despite their tears and sobs, are trivializing our loss, even though they don’t mean
to, like Jimmy actually hasn’t died because dying doing what you love isn’t dying. I wish his
family had put our captain and chief-of-police as the last eulogizers, instead of the first. They did
Jimmy better. This is the wrong final note in his send-off. If I go down in the streets and my

Sixfold/Fiction Submission: “Jimmy and Me”

11

blood splatters my badge, I want all my people waxing stoically about how terrible and
unspeakable my leaving this world is to them, not about how happy and fulfilled I was in my last
seconds.
This ground underneath my metal folding chair underneath Jimmy’s funeral tent just
shook too. I grip my chair bottom alongside my thighs to keep steady. There’s a breeze hitting
my hands and face, maybe that same breeze from the night he died. That park isn’t too far from
here. I hope every badge-less person here feels this breeze too. They owe it to Jimmy. But the
ground. I’m jamming my heels against this ground holding up Jimmy’s casket to keep from
shaking. I gotta be steady. Not look freaked out.
Those here without badges can’t feel the moving ground. So at least while I’m still sitting
in this chair and have something to grab onto, none of them will see me shaking.


