They could see the rain drops splatter the ocean and the beach and
the boardwalk. Greg clicked the switch under the steering wheel to activate
the convertible top. He looked skyward as the black canvas unfolded over
them.
“Op!” cried Jiffy.
“Top,” Kirby laughed.
Greg latched the top shut. Through the rain, they could see Lucy the
Elephant, six stories high, her trunk dipped in a round wooden water tank.
She peered over their heads through glassy, white and red-rimmed eyes.
“Goggy,” Jiffy shouted.
“Elephant!” Greg exclaimed. “We can go inside her if you want.”
“He thinks you’re pulling his leg,” Kirby said.
Jiffy sucked on the rear view mirror.
“Give me a sec with the old girl,” Greg said.
He handed Jiffy to Kirby. He pulled on his rain jacket and climbed the
stairs to the boardwalk. Only a few people were around. The surf boomed

against the sand. Greg could smell the salt and fish. Seagulls dipped over
the crests of waves, screeching, diving, and snapping up clams on the
beach.
Greg squinted through the rain at Lucy. She looked complacent,
unperturbed by rain or responsibilities. She’s like me, Greg thought.
Jobless. Demonstrating lack of initiative.
Lucy was built by James V. Lafferty, Jr. in 1881 in Margate, New
Jersey. She was a novelty hotel meant to attract visitors from Philadelphia.
He’d put up a road sign:
The Only Elephant in the World You can Walk
Through and Come Out Alive
People drove long distances to gawk at Lucy’s two 17-foot, 2,000
pound ears and her two 22-foot tusks. Since she’d been built, the
surrounding populations had multiplied. Greg, growing up a few miles away,
had done an oral report on her in fourth grade.
Lafferty had constructed Lucy out of 200 kegs of nails, four tons of
bolts, and a million pieces of timber fashioned into 8,560 ribs. Skin made
out of 12,000 square feet of tin covered her elephant frame. Total weight –
90 tons. One night, sailors on a sea voyage up the Jersey coast caught a
glimpse of Lucy through their telescopes and gave the alarm, “Elephant!”
Inevitably, in the salt air, Lucy began to decay. Greg joined the Save
Lucy the Margate Elephant Committee, which raised millions. Lucy was

Elephant and Baby / 3

restored and moved several blocks on flatbed trucks along Pacific Avenue to
her new home.
Peering upward through the rain, Greg pictured the dry space inside
Lucy’s hollow skull where her brain and white stalks of optic nerves should
have been. He and his father would peer out Lucy’s eyes at the ocean.
“Lucy used to live in Africa and eat bananas,” his father explained. Lucy
seemed alive. Would she stroll toward the surf and swim to Africa? Would
she float upside down on the ocean waves to get the tread of human feet
out of her skull?
Greg glanced down at Kirby and Jiffy in the car. Suddenly, through
the windshield, he saw Jiffy throwing himself off the dashboard onto Kirby's
face. Kirby caught him and held him up by one leg. She wasn't used to
babies. Greg ran down the stairs to the car and yanked open the door.
“Come here, monkey,” he said, grabbing Jiffy.
He put Jiffy in the back seat and ran around to the driver’s door and
climbed inside.
“You're soaking wet,” Kirby said.
“I’m having fun,” Greg said. He grabbed Kirby’s hand and kissed it.
She pulled back, laughing, pressing her palms against her face.
Greg leaned over to kiss her. Kirby winced. She squeezed Greg’s
hand. “Not good timing,” she said.
“Jiffy won’t talk.”

Elephant and Baby / 4

“I’m serious, Greg.” She leaned into Greg and kissed him. “This isn’t
an elephant where you can walk through and come out alive.”
“Ha. So what is it?”
“It’s adultery where everyone gets eaten alive.”
“Bosh.”
“It’s true.”
“Where’s Rusty going on his next trip?”
“India.”
“How long will he be gone?”
“A week. Three months. Five years.”
“Perfect.”
“He wants me to go with him.”
“Hell, no—“
“He is my husband.“
“Don’t decide anything.”
“Greg – ”
“We can talk later.“
On the way back to the house, they stopped at Rapetti’s to get the
lasagna. Greg jumped outside and ran through the rain.
“I hope you guys like lasagna,” he said, returning to the car.
The windshield wipers slapped back and forth, splattering the rain
left and right. Jiffy stood on the edge of the back seat and pointed to the
wipers.

Elephant and Baby / 5

“Ahgee!” he cried.
“Sit down, Jiffy, before you fall down,” Greg called. He reached back
and nudged the baby gently back onto the seat. Jiffy kicked and fell over.
“We should put him in the car seat.”
“We're almost home.”
They rounded Newport and Winchester and then turned on Portland
and stopped in front of the cottage. Greg switched the ignition off and
studied Kirby's face. Her mouth pursed as she watched the rain pelting the
pavement. She looked troubled, half-heartedly resisting a twinge of
bafflement in her eyes.
“What?”
“I don’t know—“
“Tell me.”
“Things are –”
Just then Jiffy fell off the back seat onto a can of paint. Greg lunged
back and brought him up. Jiffy was screaming. His leg was cut and
bleeding. Kirby grabbed a kleenex and pressed it against his leg.
“Poor baby!” she cried.
They ran with the baby through the rain. Rusty and Melissa were in
the living room looking at Rusty's cameras. Rusty was wearing an orange
polo.
“The baby cut his leg.”

Elephant and Baby / 6

“What?” cried Melissa. She jumped up and took the baby from Greg.
A drop of blood fell on the glass coffee table.
“How did it happen?”
“He fell off the back seat onto the can of paint.”
“Why wasn’t he in his car seat?”
“It's my fault,” Kirby said.
Melissa carried Jiffy into the kitchen and began running water over his
leg. Jiffy gargled and screamed and pressed his back against her chest.
“Do you have first aid cream?” Melissa called.
“In the bathroom.”
Kirby and Melissa hurried the baby into the bathroom. Greg followed.
He watched from the door, and then came back out. He sat down on the
sofa next to Rusty. Then he jumped up. “The lasagna!”
He hurried out to the car. It was still raining. Back in the living room,
he put the lasagna on the glass coffee table next to the drop of blood. He
wiped up the blood with a paper towel. He threw the towel into the kitchen
garbage and then came back and sat next to Rusty.
“I hope you guys like lasagna,” he said.
“Everybody likes lasagne,” Rusty said.
“I don’t know about Cambodians.”
“Sorry about Jiffy.”
Rusty went out and got some coffee, came back, and poured it into
four cups. A few drops of coffee spilled on the glass coffee table. Greg

Elephant and Baby / 7

peered through the glass at the green shag rug. It was raining, and there
was blood and coffee. It must add up to something. As an accountant, he
was used to things adding up.
Kirby came out and sat on the other side of Rusty.
“I think I'd like to have a baby,” she said.
“Right —“ Rusty said.
“I'd like to have three babies,” Kirby added. Her voice was
noncommittal, jovial.
Rusty laughed. “What would you do with three babies?”
“I knew it,” Kirby said, grimacing at Greg. “That's what he always
says. He thinks babies are like diving bells.”
Greg wondered what was keeping Melissa. He went into the
bathroom. Melissa was holding the baby over the sink.
“How's he doing?”
The baby convulsed under Kirby's arm.
“He’ll be OK.”
“I am so sorry.”
“Sorry, your butt. All you’ve been doing lately is acting like a baby.”
“You’re the expert in everything.”
Greg went back to the living room. “The baby will live!” he
announced. The bathroom door slammed.
“That's no way to talk,” Kirby scolded.
“Oh, I like the baby, all right.”

Elephant and Baby / 8

“We should have had him in the car seat.”
Melissa came out with the baby. Jiffy was sniffing. He had stopped
crying.
“Let me hold him,” Greg said.
Melissa turned away, shielding Jiffy with her arm.
“What’s up with that, Melissa?”
She turned on him. “Next time, for Christ’s sake, put him in the car
seat – and get a job!”
“To hell with the car seat – and the job!” Greg shouted.
Melissa slapped his face.
Greg’s mouth began to bleed. He hurried into the bathroom and held
his head over the sink. The blood dripped on the white porcelain, reminding
him of when the baby was born. Would he bleed when he died? How would
he die? It was a good question.
He didn't want to get blood on his shirt. He unbuttoned the shirt and
pulled it off. He threw it over the shower curtain next to Kirby’s bra.
After he cleaned up, he went back out into the living room, holding a
tissue against his mouth.
“Where's your shirt?” Melissa asked.
“On the shower curtain next to Kirby's bra.”
Jiffy was crawling across the carpet toward the coffee table. Greg
picked him up and reversed his direction. “Go the other way, Jiffy,” he said.
Kirby was gone.

Elephant and Baby / 9

“Where's Kirby?”
“I think she’s out on the sun porch,” Rusty said.
Rusty was going through old photographs.
“Kirby said you’re headed for Indiana.”
“India, not Indiana.”
“I know. I was using humor.”
“Funny.”
“What’s the job this time?”
“National Geographic asked me to do a feature on carvings of Ganesha
and other Hindu sculpture.”
“Ganesha?”
“He’s an elephant - half god, half human. Here I’ll show you.”
Rusty jumped up, pulled a book off the shelf, and opened it. He
turned it toward Greg. Greg looked at a photo of a lumpy elephant wearing
makeup. The elephant had a human pot belly.
“Hindus worship him as the Lord of success, wisdom, and wealth,”
Rusty explained. “His ears are larger than normal so he can hear our
prayers.”
Suddenly Melissa cried, “Where's the baby?”
The baby had disappeared.
They looked in different rooms. Greg checked the sun porch and
found Kirby lying on a chaise lounge, holding the baby on her stomach.

Elephant and Baby / 10

“Look at the baby,” she said. Jiffy was trying to stand up, holding on
to Kirby's thumbs.
“Melissa’s looking for him,” Greg said. He called into the house.
“Kirby has the baby!”
Jiffy toppled backward onto Kirby’s legs. “Whoopsiedaisies,” Kirby
cried.
Melissa and Rusty came out on the sun porch.
“Here's mommy,” Greg said.
“Hi, buddy!” Melissa called.
“There you go,” Kirby said.
Melissa took Jiffy and went back inside, placing him on the carpet.
Rusty followed them. Jiffy fell over and began crawling into the living room.
On the sun porch, Greg sat on the floor next to Kirby.
“I won’t let you go,” he announced.
“I’m beginning to hate love.”
“I’ll either die with it – or without it.”
“You’ll have to choose between us, you know.”
“I know. I wasn’t born yesterday.”
“Then you know that one of your choices will break everything into
little pieces.”
“Let’s put off the choosing business a little longer.”
Kirby was silent, staring at the rain.
Greg spoke. “You never said you liked babies.”

Elephant and Baby / 11

“Now you know.”
“And?”
Kirby turned away. She snuggled deeper into the chair.
“Talk to me,” Greg said.
“You’re interrupting my rain.”
They watched the rain beating against the panes of glass on the sun
porch. The drops looked like pearls, slightly larger than drops of blood. All
the drops in the world in one day, he thought. What were they telling him?
What was he missing? Melissa liked to say he was always missing
something. Beyond the windows he could see the rain drumming on the
roofs.
After a while, Greg got up and went inside.
“Why don’t you get your shirt on?” Melissa said.
Greg got his shirt from the bathroom and put it on. Later, everyone
sat at the dining room table and ate lasagna, bread, and salad with red
wine. Greg held the baby on his lap and fed him lasagna.
“Don’t feed him too much,” Melissa said.
Rusty told them about his trip to India. “I’m going to bring back a
little statute of Ganesha for Jiffy,” he said.
“Ganesha has big ears so he won’t miss anything,” Greg said.
Everyone had seconds on lasagne, and then they had more wine.
Greg and Rusty and the baby went out into the living room to watch
the Army-Navy game. Kirby and Melissa moved into the kitchen. Greg could

Elephant and Baby / 12

hear their voices. The Army quarterback threw for 40 yards. The thought
came to Greg about all that he had and what would happen if he lost it. He
imagined dropping a valuable ceramic statue or vase on a slab of concrete.
Kirby and Melissa came back out. Melissa was pushing hair out of her
face. Everyone had more coffee. Kirby brought out apple fritters for dessert.
Jiffy sat on the floor and ate an apple fritter.
Greg, Melissa, Rusty, and Kirby sat on the sofa and looked at Rusty's
photo albums. The first one was from a trip to Mexico for Time magazine. In
one of the photos, Rusty and Kirby were posing in front of the Metropolitan
Cathedral of the Assumption of Mary in Mexico City. Melissa read the
caption. “Note Renaissance, Baroque, and Neoclassical architecture in the
cupola and bell-shaped tower crowns. Manuel Tolsa designed the three
sculptures – Hope, Faith, and Love.”
Rusty finished the story. “Cortes tore down the Aztec temple of
Tenochtitlán piece by piece. It lay in ruins, but then he built his own
cathedral with the same stones. Now it’s sinking into the mud.”
“Serves him right.”
“Go, Aztecs.”
“It’s politics, not sports,” Melissa said.
“What about religion?” Greg asked. “Christ have mercy on us. Mary
full of beans.”
The second album contained mostly family vacation photos. In one,
Rusty and Kirby were standing in front of a bonfire. Rusty had on a yellow

Elephant and Baby / 13

mohair sweater. He was balancing on one foot with his arm around Kirby's
shoulder. Melissa was in the background eating a burrito. Rusty leafed
through the rest of the photo album.
“Look—more shots of the baby,” Melissa said.
“Baby!” the baby exclaimed.
“Baby!” they chimed in.
Kirby tickled the baby’s chin. Then she clapped her hands and
laughed. “We've got to have a baby, Rusty.”
Rusty eyed the three of them. “Greg knows how to make babies,” he
said.
Kirby peered at him sharply. Rusty was grinning. He polished a spot
on the digital camera. Finally, he announced, “All right, Kirby, you win. Let’s
have a baby.”
Kirby kissed him.
“Maybe we should leave,” Greg said.
Rusty laughed.
“Actually, we have to get Jiffy home and put him to bed,” Melissa
said.
They all went out to the car. It had stopped raining and turned warm.
Greg put the convertible top down. Melissa strapped Jiffy in the car seat in
the back. They said good-bye and pulled away.
After a while, Greg asked, “How’s Jiffy?”
“The baby will live - as you said.”

Elephant and Baby / 14

“I love Jiffy, too, you know.”
They rode along in silence. The traffic was backed up on Pacific
Avenue.
“What were you and Kirby talking about?”
“Nothing.”
“Nothing?”
“You know, girl talk - black holes, sanctuaries for endangered gorillas,
affairs.”
Greg glanced at her. He swallowed. “Melissa -”
“Stop.”
They could see Lucy ahead on the left. Melissa was silent.
Greg didn’t know what to say. Jiffy started kicking and shouting.
Melissa reached back and tugged at his shoe. “Come on, baby.”
“Tomorrow, let’s take Jiffy to see Lucy.”
Melissa didn’t answer. Greg glanced over at her. A ray of sun glowed
through the windshield onto her cheek bones and long eye lashes. Then a
cloud rolled over, and the light was gone. On the seat between them, Greg
covered her hand with his.
“Whatever,” she sighed finally. A tear trickled down one cheek. It
began raining again. A few drops landed on the baby's face.
“Otter,” Jiffy cried.
“The baby's getting wet,” Melissa said.

Elephant and Baby / 15

Greg pulled to the curb and put the top up. It unfolded over their
heads like a great bat wing.
“Top!” cried Jiffy.
“That right, Jiffy, top!”
Greg snapped the top in place just as the rain began pouring down.
They could see the drops bouncing on the howdah carriage on Lucy’s back.
Up there, visitors could see Margate and Ventnor and as far away as
Atlantic City. Greg remembered the tour guide explaining years ago that
they couldn’t actually see Africa from the howdah because the earth was
curved. Life never seemed to give anyone a clear view. Or maybe there
were glimpses, and you had to be ready to latch onto what you believed
was true.
Greg pulled away from the curb as rain pelted the windshield. They
drove toward Longport to catch the Absecon bridge to the mainland. Behind
them, through the rear view mirror, Greg could see the rain falling on
Lucy’s 12,000 fragments of tin.
#


