Maybe one in ten of my high school classmates can name the Vice President of
the United States, but I doubt there’s a kid in that learning factory who
couldn’t pick my father out of a crowd. Dad’s a legend at my school.
Today is Thursday, so I’m staying late for tutoring. My friend Carl and I found a
couple of seats in the back of the Learning Center and played Battle Royale on
Carl’s phone until the bell rang and they ran us out. I live across the street in a
place my family rented a month into my freshman year, so I have a short walk
home. Three years have passed since we moved in and I’ll never forget my
apprehension over starting at a new school mid-semester. I was afraid that I’d
be invisible to other kids, but the Let the Little Children Come to Me bible camp
t-shirt my mother made me wear that first day quelled that concern.
I approached our yard and spotted Dad at the property line in a discussion
with our neighbor, Mr. Khan. I don’t know who’s more offensive to Dad, the
Muslims or the gays, but he has it in his head that Khan is both, so I don’t
imagine the two of them are over there swapping recipes.
Mr. Khan has lived here for years and our landlady assured us when she
handed over the keys that he was a prized neighbor. We met her at a church
we used to attend, and she rents to us below market value because she wanted
to ease poor Eddie’s burden. I was curious right away when I overheard her say
this because until that moment, I hadn’t been aware that I had a burden.
Dad still maintains that he didn’t mislead the landlady to convince her to drop
her price. Yes, kids pushed me around on the bus at my old school and
relocating to a house situated a mere two hundred yards from my classes did
resolve my problems with bullies, but only those unfortunate enough to ride
buses. Conversely, Dad’s claim to her (and to the school administration, half of

False Dilemma/2

the medical community in town, and the universe of Facebook) that I am
autistic, well that was a stretcher.
Dad and Mr. Khan turned to me in unison. I see exasperation in my father’s
bulging eyes, while the yard blower in my neighbor’s grip suggests they’ve
kicked off their autumn leaf skirmish early this year. We have no trees on our
property, but a couple of Modesto ashes shade the house next door. My father
insists that Mr. Khan bears responsibility for each leaf that falls from his trees
to our yard, much like a dog owner is liable to clean up after a pet that’s done
its business on a neighbor’s lawn.
Dad started to speak, no doubt to sandbag his feeble argument, and Mr. Khan
triggered the blower. When Dad hushed, our neighbor let off the throttle. They
cycled through three iterations of this before my father balled his fists like a
toddler set to launch a tantrum. He’s hypersensitive about people talking over
him, and he’ll never let a possibly homosexual Islamic leaf agitator get away
with taunting him this way. He lunged for the blower, but Khan dodged, and
Dad tangled in the electric cord, ending up on all fours in the grass. He
scrambled to his feet as I reached him, and I signaled my neighbor to his
garage while towing my father back to our place.
Dad has always been a crank, but I only recently came to see how far
downstream his raft has drifted. Last month, a couple of my prescriptions ran
out and, given how he grouses when I don’t allow him enough lead time to refill
them, I told him that I was still sitting on a week’s supply. I went without meds
eight days and my video game scores spiked. Since then I haven’t taken a pill
and I rule Battle Royale. Even my teachers are making sense lately. The only
downside to this new clarity is the way Dad’s rants now grate on my nerves.
I’ve been off the pills a month, but no one can know that because my parents
feed on sympathy and having a sick kid draws plenty of it. The prescriptions
somehow assure them that my being so screwed up isn’t their doing. I was
taking Ritalin for ADD, Prozac for depression, and something to keep psoriasis,

False Dilemma/3

which I don’t recall ever having, at bay. I took Isotretinoin for acne, which I
have in florid abundance, and Enulose eased the epic constipation that the
other drugs inspired. I’m doing fine without the pills, but now when I look at
my parents, they just seem… Well, they’re nuts.
I ushered Dad into our living room, where he complained about his wrenched
back. I led him to the couch and said, “Stretch out here and you’ll be fine.”
Fawning over each other’s ailments is how we bond in our family, like baboons
nitpicking, but I can’t bring myself to do it right now.
Mom rushed in. “Jack? Are you hurt? What happened?”
“Get me your back brace, Eddie. The pain ... it’s agonizing....”
“That old brace is too small for you. Mom can massage your back, or
something.” I stepped away and made room for her. She relishes these
opportunities to come to his aid.
I wore the back brace when I was eight years old and my parents were
convinced that I had scoliosis. It’s in my closet, where I keep a museum of
medical torture devices. I have supports for weak joints caused by an
autoimmune disorder, a shoe insert from a chiropractor who deemed my left
leg to be half an inch shorter than my right, and a mouthpiece for TMJ. There’s
plenty more tucked away, but I never did get the one set of hardware that
would benefit me, which is braces on my teeth. Apparently, we don’t have
money for such extravagance and, as Dad pointed out, who am I to try to
improve on what my Lord and Savior gifted me at birth?
“Do you think we should call a minister?”
That is Mom’s go-to solution in its perpetual search for a problem. I don’t know
what she thinks a minister might bring to our dance party, but Dad had it out
with our last preacher three Sundays back and we departed that church under
threat of police involvement.

False Dilemma/4

“I should get a lawyer,” Dad declared. “Eddie, write up a statement while this is
fresh in your mind.”
“I have math homework.” That line gets me out of just about any contact with
my parents. I ended up in Special Ed when I transferred schools, though I’m
not sure why because, despite Dad’s proclamations that I’m not the sharpest
knife in the drawer, I’ve never failed a class. Sure, Math and I are not on
friendly terms, but I get no help at home. Mom threw her hands up when I hit
fractions in grade school and Dad’s patience died a harrowing death when we
started rationalizing denominators in Algebra. His inability to teach me
confirmed to him that I cannot be taught, so he trekked me to the Office of
Special Needs.
His eyes challenged me and I smiled, another upshot of dropping my meds. Not
honoring my father is wrong, but lately I slide into it like a hot bath. “Fine,” he
said. “You can type up something later.” I turned to go and he called out, “Wait
a minute. It’s Thursday.”
Damn. He posts Bible quotes on signs and plants them in our lawn to further
whatever crackpot philosophy he’s fixating on that week. He changes out the
signs Thursday nights and stands in our yard Friday afternoons shouting his
take on the word of Jesus to kids heading home after classes. As I said, he’s a
legend at my school. “I don’t have time.”
Mom muttered a Lord Have Mercy and Dad sat up. It seems that his back pain
has dissipated. “If God had given me the money, you’d be in a proper Christian
school. Instead, you walk among sinners in that godless institution across the
street and it is my mission to save you and your friends there. It won’t hurt you
to give five minutes in support.”
Friends? Every kid at school and half the teachers call him Mr. Dork. The
German students call him Herr Dorkmeister and I’m Son of Dork or some
variation to pretty much everyone down to the janitors and lunch ladies. He’s
my father and I’ve ignored the harassment at school because his heart always

False Dilemma/5

seemed to be in a good place, but I’m beginning to think he’s just an angry
bigot who uses religion to bully me and Mom as compensation for his being
such a limp dick in every other corner of his life.
Dad works for the county nine hours a day, Monday through Thursday. On
Fridays, he knocks off at noon and rushes home to one of Mom’s soggy egg
salad sandwiches and a bag of corn chips. After that, he’s on lawn patrol,
impressing my classmates.
Most kids pass our house mildly amused, but Dad’s too irresistible to a certain
subset of them. They launch his signs to our roof at night or draw anatomically
optimistic penis images on them. Occasionally the posters find their way to the
gym walls at school, but lately, and with disturbing numbers, kids have taken
to festooning them with spent condoms.
He’s my father and I pity him, so I gave in and gathered his signs. I’ll do the
printing work, too. I suspect that this week’s message from the Book of Jack
will be a dispatch on how man-loving leaf litterers will spend eternity gnashing
their teeth in the blazing furnace.
*
I ducked into the boys’ room and had nearly finished my business there when
a wrestling team member stepped in talking on his phone. His name is Hansen
and I’m his favorite sport. He positioned himself at the adjacent urinal, despite
there being three vacant slots to his right. His cologne battled for supremacy
over the stink of piss and I found myself conflicted over which of them I hoped
might prevail. He unzipped and let out a groan. “Oh, man…” he said into his
phone. “I held that back way too long.”
I kept my head down.
“Yeah, so what?” he continued. “I held it for like an hour, Julia. Give me a
break.” I let a smile escape and he elbowed me to the wall. “Didn’t Daddy teach

False Dilemma/6

you it’s rude to listen to other people’s conversations? Thou shalt not
eavesdrop, Dork Boy.”
“What choice did you give me?”
I regretted that straightaway. Hansen turned, hands on hips, and autographed
my leg with his impressive stream. “Praise God, brother.”
I jumped clear and he turned back, telling the girl on the phone that he’d catch
up with her in Biology. My pants were soaked, so I hurried to a stall and
dabbed at them with a wad of toilet paper. Hansen finished at the urinal and
primped in front of the mirror a few minutes. When he finally left, I slipped out
and spied his backpack on a wall hook.
What would Jesus do? My father drops that on me when I ask for advice, which
is why I stopped doing it. Jesus would turn the other cheek or render unto
Caesar or something, but I gravitate toward an Old Testament eye-for-an-eye
response: piss on it. That would be elegant, but my tank is drained. I
considered my own backpack and the one-gallon Ziploc bag inside it, where I’ve
stashed a dozen pills a day for the past month. I pulled the bag from my
backpack and shoved it into Hansen’s, then slipped out of the restroom.
The corridor was empty, meaning I was late to class. I hadn’t yet figured out
how my brilliant move with the pills was going to balance out the humiliation
of cruising these hallways in urine-soaked jeans, and I was working through
that when a voice broke my concentration.
“Don’t you have a class you should be sleeping in?”
It was Señor Clancy, my sophomore year Spanish teacher. Nice that he
remembers me. “Yes, sir. I’m going.” Then it hit me. “Hey, some kid left a bag of
pills in the bathroom. Short, stocky guy in a wrestling team jacket.”
Clancy widened his eyes and I turned, smiling too soon. Hansen was coming
my way, apparently to retrieve his backpack. Mr. Clancy asked, “This guy?”

False Dilemma/7

Hansen paced a wide arc around us, glaring at me like he knew I was up to
something, but not yet certain what. “Maybe,” I said. “I’m not sure.” I rushed to
U.S. History.
My father is critical of the school curriculum. He denies evolution and climate
change, even launched a Biology textbook across a classroom at a parentteacher meeting. With similar ardor, he tore out four chapters of my history
text when he learned that it gave his War of Northern Aggression the
propagandized title of the American Civil War. We’re covering that conflict in
class and since I’m unable to read about it, I’ll have to pay attention to the
lecture if I’m going to survive the upcoming unit test. I made my way to my seat
and kids moaned at the trailing stench as I passed.
My teacher, Mrs. Torres, was involved with her lecture when the wall phone
behind her rang. She lifted the receiver and nodded as she said, “Yes,” then,
“Right. Eddie,” and, “He’s on his way.” She hung up and pointed to the door.
“Vice Principal Amador is waiting for you in his office.”
I trudged across campus and entered the waiting pen as Hansen stepped out of
Amador’s office. We passed within inches of each other and I didn’t make eye
contact, but I felt the rage boiling off him. Mr. Amador waved me in. His job
forces him to mingle with barbarians all day, and his mussed hair and crooked
tie hint that he’s reached his limit with us today. I noted the mound of pills on
his desk.
The good news is that he won’t call my home. The counselors tried multiple
times last year to bring Mom in to talk about nutrition and my sleep regime
because I had been dozing off in classes. She no-showed to each appointment,
citing sciatica pain, and they gave up trying. Since then, I eat both breakfast
and lunch at taxpayer expense and I’ve put on like twenty pounds.
“You smell like a toilet,” Mr. Amador said, “and Hansen claims you set him up.
Explain yourself.”

False Dilemma/8

At times like this, I wonder not what Jesus would do, but what Dad would do.
He can draw pity out of others like an old pervert pulling a quarter from a kid’s
ear in the park. In this case, he’d judge that the truth was pathetic enough to
speak for itself, so I told my story.
He rubbed his jaw a moment, studying me, then offered to call Hansen back in,
but I protested. “It’s your decision,” he said.
I nodded. “Can I go?”
“Counseling tells me you’re not working with your tutors. They say you do
nothing but play games and stare out windows.” I objected as a matter of
decorum and he raised his palm. “Yet your classroom work has never been
better. What changed?”
What changed is the volume of pharmaceuticals I wash down my gullet every
morning. I glanced to the pile of pills on his desk and back at him. “I can’t
think of anything.”
“How’s life at home?”
I get that question a lot. “Same ol’.”
“So, what’s behind the improved grades?”
I shrugged. I thought he might send me on my merry way, but he switched
tracks on me. “I understand you take a lot of grief over your father.”
The shrug again. I can do this all day.
“Did he tell you that we spoke?” I pulled out of my slouch; Dad hadn’t said
anything to me. “I told him that his signs have become a distraction to our
students, and he told me that if I’m not for him, I’m against him.”
“One of his favorites, but a distant second to Honor thy father.”

False Dilemma/9

Amador smiled but he looked like he had a stellar case of heartburn. “Your
father quotes Matthew, which is interesting. Luke and Mark said something
like, ‘Whoever is not against you is for you,’ which is less divisive.”
“Why are you telling me this?”
He pushed away from his desk and motioned to the door. “What I’m telling you
is that you’re going to be fine if you decide that’s what you want to be. And find
a better place to dump your garbage than Hansen’s backpack.” I agreed that I
would and turned to leave, but Amador wasn’t done with me. “You’re lazy,
Eddie, and your compass is too close to a very strong magnet. Otherwise,
there’s nothing wrong with you.”
Pushing up a smile, I said, “I have to play the cards I was dealt.”
“No, Eddie. You don’t. A kid like you shouldn’t play cards at all.”
*
I crossed the street on my way home and noted a kid coming my way. He asked
for the time and as I consulted my watch, someone threw a coat over my head
from behind and bear hugged me. The jacket reeked of the cologne I had
experienced earlier in the restroom, so I had an idea of what was coming.
They frog-walked me to the parking lot of the minimarket at the intersection
and pushed me against a car. I’m familiar with this drill, so I dropped and
curled to protect my vitals and my head, and they kicked me until I wore them
out. “Stand him up,” a familiar voice said. They hauled me to my feet but the
pain in my ribs kept me from reaching full height. Sunlight assaulted my eyes
when they pulled the jacket away, and that’s when Hansen introduced his fist
to my nose.
*
I opened my eyes to the sight of a morbidly overweight woman with spectacular
fingernails on the hand she was reaching out to me. She’s the clerk from the

False Dilemma/10

store. “What’s wrong with you? You’ll get run over laying on the asphalt like
that.” She got me to my feet and offered a couple of cotton balls for my bleeding
nose, which I shoved up my nostrils. The pain made my head swim.
I thanked her and walked home, where I saw Dad out on the lawn, staring at
Khan’s house. He stood there as I passed, his back to me and his precious
signs, kneading his fists. Inside, I found my mother crying in the kitchen.
“What’s happening, Mom?” She looked at me and chills traced my skin.
“He’s going to do something we can’t fix.” She drew a sharp breath when she
noted my face. “What happened to you, Eddie?”
“Nothing. What set him off this time?”
“Mr. Khan brought a man into his house.” She framed my face with her hands.
“Let’s get you cleaned up before your father comes in.”
“What’s he doing over there, Mom?”
She shook her head. “He’s going to take it too far this time. You know how
angry he gets when it comes to the...,” she whispered, “gays.” He said he’s
going to settle this today. And he’s going to need your help with something.”
A classic Dad move—set off a shitstorm and expect me to be there to hand out
umbrellas. I leaned to the window and saw Mr. Khan walking to the street with
a man dressed in a suit and carrying a briefcase, and who looked more like an
insurance salesman than a fornicator. Dad approached them and said
something, prompting the briefcase guy to step back, his jaw slung. Khan
hopped between them, fury registering on his face. I believe my father has
finally pushed him too far. I turned to Mom, who was aging before my eyes.
“He’ll be fine.”
“Do you think so, Eddie?”
I shrugged. People tend to find their own answers when I do that. “Why don’t I
fix us some tea?”


