The stabbing pain in his chest woke Joshua again. The third time this week. He
waited – after four or five jolts it should subside like before. Not this time. He felt for
the spot, somewhere behind the third rib. It can’t be the heart, he told himself. No tingles
in the arm, no crushing pressure. And hell, he had been a half-miler in high school.
Never mind that was forty-five years and sixty less pounds ago. He pressed his fingers
against the carotid and determined the steady throbs were not synchronized with his pulse.
Josh sorted through the possible causes of his imminent and inconvenient death. A
rupturing aorta perhaps? The final stages of an aggressive tumor eating into his bones?
Or maybe just gas. While Rosie snored in the adjacent room he shifted positions, pressed
his chest here and there, but the knife blade remained insistent.
Josh lay still and retreated into his comfortable refuge of arithmetic, carrying sums
in his mind. Always his way of blocking out everything else. How many days had he
lived now? Two years was 730 days; another sixty was three times that, with another zero
added. Fifteen extra leap days, add another month and a day since his birthday. Twentytwo thousand six hundred something.

In high school algebra Josh had dueled with Mr.

O’Brien by handing in quizzes with just a single column of answers rather than filling
pages with calculations, insisting on solving the problems in his head. Big classroom hero.
Numbers came easily for him because everything was clear. An answer was either right
or wrong, and a calculation would yield the same result every time. Not like words, where
what you thought you said might not be the same as what a woman heard, because she

knew you were alluding to that other thing, and your tone of voice was different this time,
and maybe you weren’t telling the truth.
Now in bed at three in the morning, fighting to concentrate through the splintering
ache in his ribcage, Josh tried the more difficult calculation – how many more days might
remain? Every morning he scanned the obituaries, looking not for familiar names but
instead at the ages of the day’s harvest. On mornings when all were twenty years beyond
him he felt relieved, just as he was surprised when someone younger appeared in the list.
Most troubling were those days when someone right next to him on the calendar appeared,
as if the random bullet fired into the crowd had hit the person sitting beside him. An
actuary might calculate his probabilities, but he was wary of such imprecisions. When you
are dealt just one hand, all that matters are those cards and the other possibilities don’t
count. What might he do with those remaining days, or indeed what could he do? James
Joyce spent two thousand of his days creating one imaginary day for Leopold Bloom; how
many hundreds of days did Virginia Woolf spend in making the reply of the one day of
Mrs. Dalloway? And now to the point, after six decades of indolence and indifference,
what mark had Josh left on the world besides a constellation of coffee cup rings on a
succession of desks?
Josh pondered what lies Rosie might feed to some bored obituary writer. He knew
her style.

Professor Joshua Gibbs, eminent instructor of mathematics at Plymouth
State University, was called home to live with the Lord on August 18 after
a brief illness. Left to cherish his memory are his devoted wife Rosario

2

Corgon Gibbs and his adoring daughter Joselyn. During a distinguished
career Professor Gibbs was awarded many prestigious honors and touched
the lives of countless students. . . .
How much more false could she make it? There had been no awards, and the indifferent
students in the remedial survey sections would not have recognized his name if they saw
it. If Rosie could manage it, they would run her picture instead of his. Maybe under the
title ‘Distraught Widow Mourns Underachieving Husband.’ Any praise she might offer
him, to bolster her status in the Filipino community, would be withheld until after he was
gone, so that he would never hear it. Would the paper accept an auto-obituary? Sure, Josh
grinned, let me give them the truth.

Professor Joshua Gibbs died unremarkably in his home, surrounded
by a crowd of self-doubts and regrets and unnoticed by his sleeping
wife. He was born exactly nine months after a chance power outage
to honest but emotionally unexpressive parents, who impressed
upon him, without ever substantiating the claim, that he was the
great-grandson of the famous physicist Josiah Willard Gibbs and
carried superior genes. Slightly talented in arithmetic, he
established a reputation for being clever by perfecting a few parlor
tricks with license plate and telephone numbers and was considered
‘promising.’ He studied mathematics under Professor Erwin
Rossman at Michigan State University, where he devoted many
evenings to the study of the dynamics of the pinball machines in the

3

basement of the Student Union. He remained dutifully married for
25 years to a woman he couldn’t talk to and humored her
superstitions by occasionally attending St. Stephens Church, where
he devoutly looked down the blouses of the young mothers as they
went past to receive communion. Content to receive a modest
salary involving minimal effort, Professor Gibbs remained an
assistant professor at Plymouth State University for 32 years,
teaching undergraduate core courses in mathematics for humanities
majors. His colleagues tactfully did not mention that beyond
introductory calculus his grasp of advanced mathematics was
woefully outdated. He contributed no major papers to the scientific
literature, but he occasionally wrote sarcastic letters to the editor of
the local newspaper. Of his few achievements, his most memorable
was undressing two sophomores in 1985 and . . .
Josh laid back and savored the memory. There, that was the answer – when you came to
the end of the road, wasn’t the sex really the point of it all? That one night sharing a bed
with two 19-year-olds remained vivid after ten thousand others had passed. For the daring,
what drove the wars of conquest more than the possibility of rape? For the gifted, what
was the point of painting or poetry or singing other than to beguile women into your
bedroom? For the timid, what was the reward for a wedding and enduring the complaints
of in-laws beyond the rights to regular legal fucks?
Josh snorted to himself as he looked at the wall separating the guest bedroom from
his wife’s bedroom – once their bedroom. And what was his special appeal? Being clever

4

with numbers? That had never worked in twenty years of school. The sorority girls had
looked right through him as if he were invisible, and the blind dates had never gotten
beyond the awkward first conversations over coffee. No, just be born in the right place,
and someone will be willing to put out in exchange for a green card. It sounded like a
good idea at the time. Ten years out of graduate school and still without a girlfriend, Josh
went on the bride hunt. His requirements were simple enough – someone who would
occupy his bed when needed and not compare him to past boyfriends. He looked through
the pen-pal catalogues for tours to Thailand and the Philippines, flipped a coin, and the
following month was on a plane to Manila. At the embassy he tried to think he was
different from all the other 40-year-old men filing forms for the dark-eyed girls half their
age. The other couples were all Navy vets and bar girls from Onlongapo; Josh had found
a salesclerk at the ShoeMart department store in Makati. After providing a satisfactory
tryout in his room at the Intercontinental, Rosie led Josh on the two-hour bus ride to her
hometown in Bulacan province. San Something-or-other looked to Josh like the hundred
other dismal villages they had passed along the way and that he hoped he would never
have to see again. The Corgon family was overjoyed to welcome Josh, as if Rosie had hit
the lottery. Only later did Josh realize that the primary cash crop of the family farm was
to be money orders from Stateside.
Josh grimaced at the thought. He paid the price all right, but for the first few years
he got what he wanted when he wanted it. Somewhere on the nightstand was a photo of
Josh running next to five-year-old Josie as she learned to ride a bicycle. Those were the
good days, the best, the memory he wanted to keep. There were no photos of the scowling
teenager with an angry cluster of zits on her forehead, nor of the graduation ceremony

5

with an empty chair reserved for the girl for whom Josh was at that same moment posting
bail for possession with intent to distribute. He tried to remember the names of the
various men who showed up at the house on their motorcycles with Josie wrapped on their
shoulders. How long had it been now – two Christmases or three – since the last card had
arrived from New Mexico? All of three lines, mentioning some Ramon, that Santa Fe was
full of phonies, and closing with ‘luv ya.’ In the dark Josh stared in the direction of the
child’s photo. My pride and joy.
Josh strained to see the moving blades of the ceiling fan. Outside the moonless
night gave no light, and the room was inky black save for the three red digits on the
bedside clock. Josh smiled at his small victory – the neighborhood association had
petitioned to install streetlights in the subdivision, and Josh had stubbornly resisted. At
the first hearing he had been reasonable and persuasive, citing installation and
maintenance costs and threats to the few remaining elms, and he won a delay for further
study. The neighbors were for the project and they circulated flyers talking about safety
and property values. As he became more isolated Josh dug in his heels. At the town
council meeting he had faced down two rows of his scowling neighbors. “You think more
lights will make you safe? It will just let the burglars see your doors more easily. You
think shining lights at night will increase your property values? You all were happy to
buy your houses without lights out front when you came here!” As the crowd grumbled
Josh invoked energy conservation and preservation of habitat and the death of the planet at
the hands of corporate greed, until the mayor gaveled the room to order. The council
decided that since the neighborhood did not present unanimity in their request, they could
not authorize the project, and the room erupted in curses. Josh had won, and for the three

6

years since, not one neighbor had spoken to him, which suited him fine. When no
invitations to the neighborhood picnic or the Christmas dinner came, his wife had one
more reason to deny him breakfast. “Add it to the list,” he said, not looking up. But now,
in the middle of the night, he couldn’t see a damn thing.
Three sharper stabs interrupted the dull ache and jolted Josh back to the moment.
Is this really all there is to it? he asked himself. No, there has to be something more,
some meaning or significance or gift to be left. All those millions of books, all the
monuments and testaments and earnest speeches, all the unseen sacrifices unknown people
make for other unknown people – surely there is something nobler or truer, something
higher or kinder or deeper than scuttling around trying to get laid.
The pain became more insistent, and Josh was startled to find himself praying. His
parents had dragged him to church and Sunday school for the benefit of having their
neighbors see them practice the faith, until Josh’s sarcasm became unbearable. Pulled
from his bed and forced into a white shirt every Sunday morning, he spent the rides to
Mass singing the Vatican Rag or asking his father if he needed to sandpaper his soul at
confession before the priest whipped up a batch of Jesus for the communion service. He
was hoping he could goad the old man into giving him a backhand in the parking lot while
the neighbors were watching. In college it was fashionable, even required, for up-andcoming scientists and intellectuals (and surely he was one!) to sneer at the web of
mythology the medieval Church spun to keep the bishops in wine and gold. Yet here he
was now, crouched on his knees in his underwear. Josh fumbled to remember the words
they recited at Sunday school. What was it that ended ‘pray for us now and at the hour of
our death’? Hail Holy Queen? No, hail Mary, and the fruit of thy womb. Crap, muttered

7

Joshua, catching himself reverting to his chant of Fruit of thy Loom from the dormitory
days.
Josh pressed his chest against the mattress to see if that would relieve the pain.
“All right, whatever you call yourself, here I am. Poor banished child of Eve. Foolish old
man, kneeling on the floor in his briefs, does this please you? You know all, you see all,
you know what a lazy shit I’ve been. So was I created in your image and likeness? At
least I got the part about resting on the seventh day right. Here I am, the black sheep of
the Gibbs dynasty. Is the shepherd ready to find his lost flock now? Is there something
more in your divine plan for me than shuffling around a faculty lounge or quarreling with
this stupid peasant woman? I can’t get laid any more – even my students would rather do
homework than get an easy B, and I’m not even asking for that. Just one time, to do one
thing that is brilliant or memorable, that’s all. I’m not bargaining here – you don’t want
this soul, and I won’t be building you any cathedrals. Just a chance for you not to have
one of your creatures be a complete waste.” He paused for a moment. “If you’re even
there.”
Josh stood up and peered into the blackness outside the window. The knife blade
was gone – when had it stopped? Like a roaring stadium falling suddenly silent, the
absence of the pain was as startling as its presence. He stretched his arms to the ceiling,
and felt nothing. Warily he twisted left and right, and tried to touch his toes. He could not
reach more than six inches past his knees anymore, but that was sufficient. No pain, no
discomfort. Had some power heard him? There was time yet.

8

Still wearing just his underpants Josh padded down the hallway to his study, where
his computer blinked its greeting in standby mode. There was no email in the inbox at 4
a.m. His head felt clear, as if he had just awakened from a dreamless sleep. There was
that famous old problem about transformation of Minkowski spaces – everyone had
described that four-dimensional world with tensors, with only limited success, but there
was a little trick in topology that he had toyed with in graduate school. Intuitively that had
always seemed the approach, but it would require a tedious proof. It might have been a
great thesis project – old Rossman had urged him to give it a try, but Josh wanted
something simpler. But now, why not? Nobody in the department would have guessed
this prize might fall to him. He clicked on the MatLab graphics program and opened a
new folder. Three perpendicular axes, x, y, and z, appeared, glowing green against the
black background. Josh created a fourth line, protruding diagonally from the intersection
of the other three, and turned it red. There was the start. He was excited now – applying a
Laplace transform, then taking partial derivatives along that fourth axis in imaginary
space, would yield three-dimensional shadows of that four-dimensional world. All he
needed was to set a proper notation system. But first, there was something else. He
clicked on a second icon.
Shortly after dawn Rosario made her rounds to stir the lazy man and tell him the
trash barrel had to be set outside, today was Thursday. He wasn’t in his bed or the
bathroom and not down in the kitchen, waiting for his coffee to be prepared. She peeked
through the door of his study and saw him splayed in the chair, grey stubbles of day-old
whiskers around the open mouth, the smooth white paunch overhanging the elastic of the
stained cotton briefs, one arm still outstretched towards the desk. She made no sound. At

9

last it had happened. Just one final mess of his to clean up. She knew where the papers
were, who she would need to call. She glanced at the screen glowing on the desk, at the
important work that had always made this room forbidden for her to enter. On a bright
green background seven rows of cards were laid out. He was just about to shift the ten of
diamonds onto the jack of clubs.

10


