I dread those times when I must go into the city. The city is like a great, dead whale to
me, massive, impenetrable, threatening to rupture and spill its noxious innards at my feet. That
particular day, the task at hand seemed to be especially onerous. I skirted the obligation with
invented detours and found myself in a part of the city I had not seen in years. I might have
called it my old neighborhood, but that I had never felt at home there, never connected to it or its
people except for Chantal and Craig, my neighbors a door away. When I left years before, I had
made no attempt to stay in contact with them, and in my way I had made certain that no one
could contact me.
I looked down the street at the anonymous, identical facades of the three-story apartment
buildings that stretched into the distance, their ornate moldings and machicolations, their
elaborate cornices, a testament to the great machines that could churn out part after identical part
in mechanical imitation of high art. They were beautiful for a moment until the fatigue of
repetition and the anxiety of dislocation set in. As I traversed this landscape of dis-ease, a
woman came out of one of the doors. I felt an adrenalin jolt in my chest that spread to my
extremities. The woman appeared to be Chantal.

The Nail 2
Something like this might have happened to Jonah, some bizarre hallucination in the
pitch-black belly of the beast. But in an instant I knew this was no hallucination. As she opened
the iron gate, Chantal looked up. She must have felt that same etheric rush as she saw me. Her
eyes held mine for a moment before she cried, “Phillip, mon dieu!” and started toward me.
Her arms went around my neck and she kissed me on both cheeks. Against the gray,
necrotic backdrop of the whale she was preternaturally beautiful, almost pathologically
vivacious. The pole of my own mood swung irresistibly toward hers.
“Were you coming to see me?”
I smiled. I opened my mouth but nothing came out.
“You left so suddenly. Never said where you were going. Such a naughty boy.”
Still I was speechless.
“But no matter.” She hugged me again, trapping one of my hands between us as I
fumbled with the other to return the embrace. “So how are you? Quoi d’neuf? What are you
doing these days?”
“What are you doing?” I managed to croak in reply.
“I’m on my way to get a powder. I feel one of my headaches is coming. I need
something before it overwhelms me.” She hooked her arm in mine. “Can you walk with me?”
We walked the few blocks to the apothecary along streets both familiar and strange.
Chantal peppered me with questions and laughed at my vague, evasive answers.
“Quel têtu!” she said pulling me closer to her as we walked. Like any true bilingual she
moved effortlessly between English and the French of her heritage. She was born in France and
came here at an early age. This had been for me part of the charm of our friendship. My own
grasp of French was rudimentary, and my belief that I might understand, and even reply to her,

The Nail 3
was pure invention. I had acquired a facility with Spanish in my travels as a younger man, and it
was there that I often retreated when it was clear that she would have the upper hand in our
language games.
As we waited for the apothecary to formulate a palliative for Chantal, I asked, “So how is
Craig?” I saw that I had turned the wrong stone.
She looked away from me. The radiance that had suffused her guttered like a spent
candle. “We are…” she hesitated as if searching for the right word, “Presque finis.”
“He’s gone?” I asked.
“Oh, non. Pas de tout. He is there, not there. He works. I work. He does what he
wants… et moi, aussi.” Seeing her own darkness reflected in my face, she grabbed my hand.
“It’s ok. These things happen. What there was, it’s gone. We’re not angry.” Her face lit
up again. “And I’m so happy to see you!”
Outside I steered her away from the way we had come. The late afternoon light was thin,
and the gray of the beast had deepened. We walked down a side street and I stopped her in the
dusk of a low-branched tree.
“May I kiss you?” I asked.
“But…”
“Un clavo saca el otro,” I said.
“What is that supposed to mean?”
I tried my bad French. “Une clé leve l’autre.”
“One key raises the other?” Her confusion seemed to reanimate her former mood.
“I was trying to say, one nail knocks out the other… un clavo saca el otro. I guess it
doesn’t translate well.”

The Nail 4
“Mais, si, it translates. Un clou ôte l’autre. But what does it mean?”
I brought my face close to hers and brushed her lips with mine.
“Let’s do something,” I said.
“Like what?” she asked hugging my left arm.
“Let’s go to the kino.”
She paused as if pondering the idea, then, tilting her face expectantly, said, “Ok, but first
give me a proper kiss.”
#
I talked her into walking to the theater although she thought it far. We set a leisurely
pace, stopping a pair of times to reaffirm our new-found interest in kissing. By the time we
arrived it was dusk, and the warm glow of the street lamps had all but banished the whale from
my mind. It was darkness I sought. Inside we took seats beneath an overhanging balcony deep
in the rear of the nearly deserted auditorium. I remember little of the show. I was absorbed in
the presence of Chantal and marveled each time when, as if by secret prearrangement, our lips
came together. My disappointment was sharp when the house lights interrupted our gentle tryst.
Outside the theater I pulled the lever on the call box, and we watched the black stream of
carts, wagons and carriages flowing along the boulevard until, within minutes, the varnished
scarlet of a cab appeared angling toward the curb. The horses were high-steppers, and the driver
struggled to bring them to rein.
“Sorry, Folks. They’re fresh from the stable. Must be something in the air tonight.” He
managed a temporary halt, and we ascended to the plush, dark interior of the carriage. The
horses bolted into the stream of traffic, and Chantal lurched into my lap with the force of their
acceleration. In the cab our passion was abetted by the sometimes violent sway of the rig. As

The Nail 5
our driver contended for control of his team, Chantal and I gave free rein to our desires, stopping
just short of final indiscretion.
The ride was over too quickly, as short as the walk had been long. We found ourselves
once again at the iron gate outside Chantal's building. The building was dark, and Chantal pulled
me through the gate to the base of the stone steps that led to the door. She stood on the first step,
her face level with mine, and we kissed.
"Merci," she said
"Thanks? What did I do?" I asked.
"I think you've helped me with that nail." She laughed.
"I've barely begun that!" I moved to kiss her again, my still-unspent passion pressing me
on. As I did, I felt a hand on my shoulder. Not a light touch, I felt its weight and power. It
could have pushed me to the ground. I jerked my head around trying to see, and Craig was
behind me. In my sudden terror he seemed larger than life, and I still felt his hand though now it
hovered inches above my shoulder. His face bore a poignant, melancholy expression that
brought my heart to my throat. I looked away waiting for the blow, the reprimand, I knew not
what.
"What's the matter?" Chantal asked, a hint of fear in her voice.
I looked at her and over my shoulder again. Was there a receding figure in the dimness?
Or was it a trick of shadows? Clearly Chantal had seen nothing, and now I saw only a void that,
for a moment, my over-charged imagination had filled with Craig's likeness. The looming
darkness remained, but it had lifted its mask to remind me of what, for a few hours, I had
forgotten.
"I'd better be going," I said. I made a space between us and held both her hands in mine.

The Nail 6
"But..."
I squeezed her hands and she quelled her protest.
"Will you call me?" she asked. "Tomorrow?"
"I'll call you." I kissed her lightly, though my insides trembled at the anticipation of
another hand on my shoulder. It didn't come. I turned and exited the gate, then waited until
Chantal had entered the building. I felt shaken and dazed as if, again like Jonah, I'd just been
tossed up on some alien strand. I didn't know what to do, but my legs recalled an old habit and
carried me a few blocks to a tavern on the avenue, a place I had frequented in my days in the
neighborhood.
Like everything that day, the bar was both familiar and strange. Although I recognized
no one, the few patrons might have been the same from years before, old men mostly who
worked silently through their drinks or muttered to themselves as they pawed through threadbare
change purses. Behind the bar was a young man, a crisp newness about him that belied the
timelessness of the setting.
"Good evening, Sir. What can I get you?"
I asked for a whiskey with water on the side and laid some bills on the bar. As he
delivered the drink I asked, "So, is Hollis still working here?"
"Hollis? He sold the place."
"Hollis owned it?" It seemed improbable to me.
"Yep, he owned it and he sold it. To his nephew just a few months ago. Nephew's
planning to make it a proper club once he gets the finances in order."
"I haven't been here in quite a few years. This place is something of a landmark. I'm
surprised he'd want to change it."

The Nail 7
"The whole neighborhood's in for big changes," he said.
#
I sipped my drink quietly in imitation of the other men at the bar, ruminating on the day's
events. I felt a pang of guilt that my one obligation of the day had gone unattended. The
consequences of that, which once would have been worrisome, now seemed trivial. I didn't care,
and the scarred and pitted mahogany of the bar exuded a warmth that colluded with my private
declaration. As I sipped a second and then a third whiskey, the whole day became increasingly
improbable, a story told by someone else.
"Good luck," the bartender said and parked a fourth whiskey in front of me.
"Some things will never change," I said and raised my glass in salute.
The spell of my reverie broken, I looked around and saw that the bar had filled with
people. My comrades were still there holding their places, but they were islands of introspection
in a sea of sociability. Knots of young people stood, drinks in hand, conversing busily while
others leaned against the bar. A trio of musicians had carved a space from the far corner of the
room and now thumped out a steady stream of music as others danced or loudly demonstrated
their familiarity with the lyrics.
A young man came in from the street, his clothes worn and dirty, him dusty and ill-kempt
to match. I pegged him for an indigent, but for his self-confident, athletic gate. He was greeted
several times as he made his way along the bar to stop at the empty space next to me. The
bartender was there with a pint before he had settled in. I was repulsed by his unsavory
appearance, yet fascinated by his apparent popularity with the crowd. I watched him raise the
glass to his lips and saw that his hands were rough and calloused, the hands of a working man.
On impulse I motioned to the bartender.

The Nail 8
"That one's on me," I said pushing my motley pile of bills toward him.
My new neighbor turned and raised his glass expectantly. After a moment's hesitation I
raised my whiskey in reply.
"Thank you, Sir. To what do I owe the honor?" he asked.
"You look like you need a drink after a hard day's work," I said.
"The name's Peter," he said extending his hand to me. His handshake was strong, but the
shape of it was strange. I couldn't help but look as his hand withdrew. He saw me looking, was
probably used to it, and held up his hand. It looked like a blunt spatula, the two middle fingers
matching a single line sloping from the index to the little finger, a slight crease in each one
where once there might have been a nail.
"Yeah, I've got a couple of short ones. I'm lucky, though. I could have lost my whole
arm."
"What happened, if it's not impolite to ask?"
"Are you going to have another drink?" He nodded toward my whiskey.
"This one's my 'good luck' round. Tradition has it you can't leave on a 'good luck,' so I'll
be having another I'm sure."
"Well, I'm a woodworker, a cabinetmaker by trade. Most of us lose a little nip of flesh to
the machines now and again. That's the short story, and you won't need another whiskey to hear
to the end." He sipped his ale. "But there's more to these fingers than that."
He paused and I thought I could see memories tugging at the muscles of his face,
emotions re-shaping it.
"Do you live around here?" He asked. "I don't recall seeing you."
I told him that I had lived in, and left, the neighborhood many years before.

The Nail 9
"You might remember Lawrence. He was a kind of character around these parts for
many years, even before I moved here. He worked mostly at the fruit stand up on the next
corner, cleaning, carrying boxes and the like. He helped out at other businesses on the avenue,
too. Anybody that would have him. People called him a half-wit." Peter's face darkened. "He
wasn't. He was smart. And he was pure, genuine. There wasn't a speck of bad in that man.
People can't understand that, or they can't face it and face themselves, so they ridicule it."
I remembered Lawrence, although I had never known his name: a man always
somewhere on the avenue, usually with broom in hand and a broad smile, a harmless fixture in
the landscape and one to which I took little notice.
Peter continued. "He helped out at my shop sometimes. I loved his company. There was
no need for constant attention. He was content to do what I asked or do nothing if that's what I
wanted. His presence had a peaceful, calming effect on me.
"One day he was getting harassed by some kids outside the fruit stand. I chased them off.
I was angry. I said to him, 'Lawrence, why don't you move out of this neighborhood. People
treat you like crap around here.' Lawrence smiled at me. He was always smiling. 'I can't move
away, Peter.' 'What do you mean you can't?' I think I might have shouted at him. Like I said, I
was angry. 'You can do anything you want,' I said. He was still smiling. 'Anything? Do you
think I could fly?' 'If that's what you really want to do, yes.'" Peter took a long drink from his
pint.
"The next day Lawrence came to my shop. I had this pin, the kind of thing you might
wear on your lapel. A pair of wings, just wings. I got it from a woman I'd known."
Peter paused, and again I could see in his face the parade of emotions that followed on his
parsing of his memories. I could see, too, that this creature that I had first found repulsive was a

The Nail 10
handsome man of deep feeling, one of those who, without meaning to, will bare his soul to a
stranger.
"I gave him the pin. 'Here's your wings, Buddy,' I said. 'Don't be afraid to use them.' He
loved it. He wore it every day. He told everybody I had given it to him, that it meant that if he
wanted to, he could fly.
"It wasn't long after that, I was working in my shop one morning. I had started early. I
had an important commission to finish. I have a state-of-the-art Hyperion dual-armature steam
power plant that drives all the machinery in the shop. I don't know if you're familiar with that
stuff, but it's a powerful system."
"Not at all," I shook my head. "I'm a slave to the technology that purports to make our
lives easier, and I feel unqualified admiration for anyone who understands it."
"No matter," Peter said. "I was doing a difficult cut on the saw when the wood bound in
the blade. I had a good grip on it, nursing it through, and I was dragged onto the cutting table. I
would have gone right through, but somebody grabbed me from behind and yanked me away just
as my fingers touched the blade." Peter paused as the bartender set another round in front of us.
"I was on my back looking up at Lawrence. He smiled like always and said, 'Peter, you
have to be more careful. If you cut off one of your wings you won't be able to fly.' Then he
turned and walked away. I guess I was in shock. I didn't feel any pain, but I was bleeding pretty
good. I don't know how long I was on the floor, but I finally got up. I was trying to bandage my
fingers when a couple of friends showed up. They seemed upset, from the blood and the mess, I
thought, but I told them what had happened, how Lawrence had saved me from going through
the saw. They just stared at me. Finally one of them told me that Lawrence couldn't have saved

The Nail 11
me; that early that morning someone had found him dead in the alley behind the Burton
Building."
I watched as Peter fought against the demons these recollections unleashed. Muscles in
his neck and arms bunched. His fists clenched and unclenched. He tugged at his shortened
fingers and rubbed them against his shirt as if to drive off some phantom pain.
"But, why? What happened to Lawrence?"
With some effort Peter composed himself. "The story came out eventually. A couple of
guys from Conner's Bar, used to be just down the street here, closed up now. Anyway a couple
of roughnecks got it in their heads they'd get Lawrence to show them how he could fly. They
took him to the top of Burton for the demonstration."
"Were they arrested?"
Peter chuckled. The question seemed to relax him. "Their stories were well-coordinated.
They claimed it was Lawrence's idea; they were just innocent by-standers."
"So they walked away?" In my state of heightened empathy brought on by the alcohol,
the thought seemed unfathomable.
"One was stabbed to death in Conner's, apparently in an argument about gin being better
than vodka." Peter drained his glass. "The other fell into the river one night and drowned."
#
I lost track of how many whiskeys I had. Voices and music blurred together, traded
meanings. Then it was quiet. Peter was still next to me, his head tilted back, draining the dregs
of a pint. The bar had emptied except for a few old-timers, one slumped snoring against a wall.
"You alright?" Peter asked.

The Nail 12
I nodded and he set down his glass. "I enjoyed your story," he said. "You'll have to give
me another chapter next time I see you. You left me hanging."
Had I told him a story? Had I told him about Chantal? The melancholy image of Craig's
face came to mind. Had I mentioned that piece of my overheated imaginings? I couldn't
remember anything.
We made our way outside, and Peter left me after I assured him again that I was fine. My
only thought was to leave the city. I would walk until I could find a cab. From there to the
terminal where there would surely be a steamer heading up the river. It was enough of a plan,
but my body would have none of it. Instead of heading in the direction of the city center where I
knew the night life would still thrive, I found myself drifting back up the avenue. The vaulting
hulk of the Burton Building, the tallest building on the avenue, loomed ahead, its upper floors
invisible beyond the reach of the street's illumination.
A mist rolled through the streets, and the warm glow of the street lamps turned a lurid,
greasy white. Animated by the heat of the lamps, the mist billowed like the exhaled breath of
some beast. The street became a slick black that seemed to both reflect the light and swallow it,
a surface that was no surface at all, that threatened at each step to become a pit into which I
would tumble. The shear walls of the buildings on either side defined a watery passage the
depths of which I could not plumb. I leaned against the clammy brick of a building and closed
my eyes. Jonah, I knew, had accepted his charge, but what twisted symmetry compelled me
back to Chantal that evening?
At her gate I fumbled with the latch realizing only then the extent of my inebriation. Still
there was in me a lucid core that observed my struggles with bemused patience. I stumbled on
the steps and caught the door handle to right myself. Inside, the vestibule was tiny and

The Nail 13
claustrophobic, barely the length of a grown man and half that in width. The sepulchral air was
enhanced by the jaundiced glow of a single feeble gas lamp high on a wall. Three doors led into
the interior, one to the left, one ahead, and the door to Chantal's apartment to the right. I
managed to locate among the cords that hung against the wall the one that would ring inside her
apartment.
It was as if she had been waiting for such a signal. The door flew open and she came out.
Her eyes were blackened circles, her face a mottled red, cheeks wet with tears, her mouth a
twisted rictus of anguish, the spectral effect of her appearance heightened by the dimness and
angle of the light.
"Craig est mort," she screamed. "He's dead, he's dead," repeating between sobs as she
flung herself at me, "Feu, mon Craig. Feu, mon Craig."
I felt as though all the breath had been forced from my body. I got my arms around her
sensing that she was about to collapse. My own legs threatened to give out, but I propped myself
against the wall, my head tangled among the bell cords, as I tried to move her away from me, to
shake her, to catch my breath.
"What happened?" I managed to ask.
"Je n'sais pas... At work... A scaffold. I couldn't..." She shook her head against my
chest. She had given herself into my arms and was trembling uncontrollably as I tried to move us
toward the apartment's entrance. It was barely two steps to the side, but my legs buckled and we
tumbled through the doorway onto the floor. I lay on my back not moving until Chantal pulled
herself on top of me. She pressed her mouth to my ear. "Embrasse-moi, Phillip. Make love to
me," she whispered as she pressed her lips to mine.

The Nail 14
I did not make love to her. To call it that would be an abuse. My rude, drunken
fumblings were ludicrous to me, and my sense of detachment increased even as my desire for
control evaporated. Chantal met my ineptitude with desperate passion. She, too, seemed to be
moving in some realm other than the physical, her body a mysterious collection of slickly
moving parts. My mind flew through time and space jumbling the events of the afternoon, the
time in the bar, the distant past. For a moment I became acutely aware of my body, of the
feeling of Chantal's weight upon me, her sensuous movements, her hair caressing my face. Then
I was at the ceiling looking down at the two of us sprawled in the dim trapezoid of light that was
our bed.
#
I didn't call Chantal the next day, or the next week. I didn't call her at all. I buried
myself in my work. I fielded the sometimes angry, sometimes pleading letters from my agent in
the city and obstinately refused to acknowledge them. The gloom that once had dogged my
visits to the city had moved north. It now pervaded every moment of self-reflection, and so I
avoided any turn in that direction.
Such a state could not persist, and in time a new lightness overtook my interior
landscape. I felt the tiniest pity for my agent, whom I entrusted with all my affairs and whom I
then punished with my lack of cooperation. I resolved that I could, after all, tolerate a visit to the
city. I would even stop and see Chantal. I felt sharply the guilt of never having called her, but
no, I would not call her now. I would surprise her as I had surprised myself the last time. I felt
impetuous, even giddy at the thought, as if I had dressed in some gay new outfit that would
shock those who thought they knew me.

The Nail 15
I filled the days with imagined details of my visit: Chantal's beauty, the look of surprise
on her face when she saw me, and the renewed affection she would show, tinged perhaps with
melancholy, but freed of the sordid desperation of our last encounter. I might even stop by the
bar, run into Peter, and provide him with another chapter of whatever story I had begun that
night.
I resolved that I would deal with business first. I would visit the agency offices and free
myself of the yoke of that obligation before anything else. Perversely, I did the opposite.
I found myself on the avenue in daylight now instead of darkness, but the edges of my
fantastic constructions quickly began to fray. Hollis's bar was closed. A large hand-lettered sign
in the window said, "Closed for Renovations." Below it another said, "Opening Soon." It hung
forlornly askew, held by one small bit of adhesive. I cupped my hands against the glass and
peered inside. The dust and chaos of the interior looked old and abandoned. At the next corner
the fruit stand was gone. I remembered how it seemed to spill into the street with its riot of fruits
and vegetables, but now the sidewalk was empty. The cavernous first floor of the building, once
crowded with bins of foodstuffs, was walled with huge sheets of glass. Inside were arrayed
banks of cryptic and bewildering gauges, dials, knobs, and levers, all of gleaming metal,
stretching into the dim interior. There appeared to be no entrance from the street and no hint on
the exterior of its function.
I had said that I never felt at home in the neighborhood, but now I felt my comfortable
refuge of alienation being dismantled. That other place would soon cease to exist, and
paradoxically I most wanted to hold on to it now that it was slipping away. I made my way up
the avenue to where a construction project blocked the street. Huge machines belched steam, and
cables and ropes snaked up the sides of a tall, skeletal structure. The noise was unnerving and I

The Nail 16
could not pass, so I turned down a side street only to find my way barred again by a chaotic
agglomeration of machinery and construction material. My disorientation and agitation
increased until, arriving on Chantal's street by an unfamiliar route, I had to stop for a time,
breathing deeply in an attempt to quell my growing anxiety. I passed by her gate, turned and
passed it again, unable to bring myself to cross its threshold. I tried to reclaim the pleasure I'd
felt in imagining the moment, but it had withered inside me. I finally reached the shadowy
confines of the vestibule and pulled the cord for her apartment. She was home, although by then
I thought my one chance at salvation would be her absence. Light poured from the room when
she opened the door, obscuring any expression I might have read in her face.
"Phillip, I thought I might not see you again."
She didn't throw herself into my arms. Her moment of hesitation, perhaps laden with
meaning, was indecipherable to me. She grasped my hands, hers warm against my skin, and
pulled me into the apartment. The room was flooded with light coming through the tall windows
that looked out on the street. I hadn't noticed the brightness outside. Perhaps the sun had just
broken through.
"I thought I'd surprise you," I said.
"Well, you did. You did." She offered me a seat at a small table against the wall. "So,
how are you?"
"The same," I said."How about you? How are you doing?"
"Bien, très bien. I'm doing well." She sat opposite me. "I've met someone."
I felt a pang, of betrayal perhaps? "El clavo nuevo?" She looked puzzled, so without
much enthusiasm, I tried my French. "La clé nue," I said.

The Nail 17
"The naked key?" She laughed, a sound that could have been delightful. "Oh, I
remember now. Un clou ôte l'autre." She had a faraway expression on her face, eyes halfclosed, smiling, as if I were no longer in the room, or she transported to some other place. "His
name is Raymond."
"For now, perhaps," I said. The irritation I felt may have crept into my voice although
she did not seem to notice.
"What do you mean?"
"Raymond. Rey del mundo. King of the world."
"Phillip, I think you're jealous."
I did not respond.
She leaned across the table and kissed me lightly on the cheek. "You are so clever. You
are always mon ami."
The remainder of the visit was a meaningless string of platitudes. Chantal chattered on,
her cheerfulness obnoxious now, and I retreated into my customary silence. I didn't stay long,
using as an excuse my for-once-truthful assertion that I needed to reach the offices of my agent
before dusk. Out on the street the world had turned gray again, and nothing stirred.

END


