It wasn’t until the fourth month with Baby Bob that I realized I’d been producing
whiskey, not milk. I’d figured it was the scent of my man Gordon’s breath lingering that I’d
caught sniffs of occasionally, but I clued into him not being the source when I tried a taste of
myself in a moment of strange curiosity. I told Gordon right away and right away he asked if he
could try it. I didn’t see why not. I loved Gordon. Baby Bob we were still getting used to.
Baby Bob was a surprise because I thought I was no good for mothering, parts wise. I’d
done the thing plenty of times—tried all through the sixties—and only this once, in 1973, did my
belly balloon up. Gordon didn’t get mad, though, when he saw I was swelling. He laughed and
said, “Well, aren’t I the lucky winner.” I laughed too, for all I knew then Baby Bob would bring
us closer and we’d be lovers forever.
I took Baby Bob off the nipple as soon as I realized, but Gordon kept me going. Baby
Bob started keeping us up at night, then—or me at least. Gordon would wake up, take a few
pulls, and pass right back out, sweat pouring off him sickly sweet as he slept. I tasted that once,
too. Put my finger to his back and took a swab. It tasted like Old Crow over ice cubes made of
mud.
Baby Bob cried when I gave him bottles of formula. He swatted the little glass Gerber
jars of blended banana off the table with his little hazel eyes all red and puffy from the whining,
which had become constant after I stopped letting him nurse. Soon enough I let him back at me
so we could both sleep soundly through the night. I figured he’d been guzzling away all those
months already and he seemed healthy enough. Big even, with his chunky hands and wide head
and flesh folds in his arms and legs.
I wanted to be responsible, though, so I told the doc what was happening as best I could.

Baby Bob and Me 2
He asked to see for himself. I kind of sat there quiet looking at my feet and feeling my face glow
hot. But he said, “No, no, no,” reading my embarrassment, and then hooked me up to some
machine. It squeezed out the amber liquid down a hose and into one of those little see-through
plastic cups that they ask you to pee into. The doc took the cup and gave it a little swirl like a
glass of fine wine and knocked it back. His smacked his lips together a few times. “Not bad,” he
said. I left, as far as I know, without a diagnosis of anything wrong.
#

#

#

Before Baby Bob was born, Gordon had been working on a used car lot but he quit when
the kid came, saying I’d need help around the house, and since the crisis over in the Middle East
was affecting America now that nobody would be buying cars anyway. “What’s the damn point,”
he said, “if nobody can fuel ‘em up.” But once Baby Bob came, our savings ran out quick and
Gordon had to go back to work. He got a job unloading trucks in the early mornings, and he
came home smelling like fish. “Shellfish,” he always corrected me. He’d come home from work
around 1 p.m., plop his boots off any old place, and come cruising in for a kiss. I’d make him
shower up to try and get the smell of the cargo off him and then feed him some chicken salad for
lunch. After all that, I’d let him have a drink.
Baby Bob grew some hair and started to crawl. Some of his fat flesh bended more into
muscle or dropped away entirely. Gordon, who was always a schemer, told me his idea one
night, the Phillies game going on in front of us. We were sitting on the couch, Gordon’s hand on
my belly—which looked pretty good considering the recent mutations in size; a few ghostly
white lines on the sides was all. Gordon kept interrupting his own plan, which I didn’t like the
sound of, to lift up my shirt and get another drink. I told him I’d get him a glass. He said, “I’m
fine with this arrangement.”

Baby Bob and Me 3
I took his hand off my stomach and pulled my shirt down.
“Now that’s just like you. You won’t give it away for free to your husband, so of course
you won’t sell it.”
“It’s not right and I’m not doing it, so drop it.”
“Anne, it’s easy money,” he said.
“It’s my body.
“We bottle it and sell it and nobody ever knows.”
“It’s not like that,” I said. “I feel like a freak.” I covered my eyes with my hand. Gordon
put his arm around me. “I don’t think its right to profit off of things wrong with people.”
“What about the oil crises?” Gordon asked. “You think nobody’s making cash off all this
stuff going wrong?”
I snuck out from under his arm and leaned my head up against the arm rest and closed my
eyes, trying to get my heart rate back to normal. I felt Gordon sneak up on me and reach for a
drink. I opened my eyes and saw him with his long, needing face, looking like a horse coming to
waterhole after a long ride through the desert. He got drunk off me that night and I finished
watching the ballgame by myself before I tucked Baby Bob in. I went to bed and left Gordon
snoring heavily but evenly on the couch. On the way up I flipped the lightswitch and shuttered
him in darkness. “Last out, lights out,” I said to nobody but myself.
#

#

#

Gordon smoked the long, skinny type of cigar with the plastic filter on the end. His
afternoons after work whittled by in an eternal cloud of smoke with him complaining that he
wasn’t paid enough considering the smells and hot sun and cramped trucks, and then he’d start
up about what he called the cash cow we were sitting on so stupidly idle. He’d get sick of

Baby Bob and Me 4
arguing eventually and play Marshall Tucker records loud on the stereo and in the evenings his
drinking buddies—I wouldn’t call them friends—would drop by and drag him out to the bar.
One night, I heard Gordon come in late. The clock read three a.m. and I tried to fall back
to sleep as I heard Gordon banging around in the kitchen—I figured making another drink or two
from the real bottles he kept stashed for when I was asleep or not around. The baby woke up for
all the noise and started crying and I got up out of bed and went to him. I took him in my arms
and rocked and sang a little ditty, something childish. Gordon came into Baby Bob’s bedroom,
holding a salami and mustard sandwich hanging from between his teeth like a wild animal, and
put his hands on my shoulders and spun me toward him, feeling me up and down with crablike
hands. I moved away saying, “The baby,” and I smelled the mustard and his awful breath and he
moved in some more.
“Stop,” I said, louder.
Gordon was still all over me working up the shirt and trying to plow down into the
waistband of my pajamas and Baby Bob was stuck in the middle, crying and screaming. “The
baby,” I said again. “Let me put the baby down.”
Gordon took the sandwich from his mouth and grunted and tossed the sandwich into the
corner of the room. As I was laying Baby Bob down Gordon picked me up from behind and I
lost grip of the baby and he dropped the last foot or two into the crib.
“Gordon!” I yelled. The baby cried. I felt so angry at myself that I’d let him drop, even
just into his bed. Gordon had me by the thighs and held me up over the crib. I felt Gordon bite
into my arm. Then he unclamped his teeth and turned me in his arms and lowered me to his
mouth. I put my hand over my mouth. I said, “No,” through my fingers. I said, “Let me down.” I
said, “Get the fuck off of me.”

Baby Bob and Me 5
Baby Bob screams faded, but not much, as Gordon carried me out of the room.
#

#

#

The next day I finished the last load of laundry at the crack of dawn and got the rest of
my things into the trunk of the Volvo. I put Baby Bob in the car and gave him his favorite toy
truck and was about to get in the car myself when Gordon came out the front door. We stood in
the driveway blinking at each other.
“I’m going to get cleaned up,” he told me.
I shifted my weight from one foot to the other.
“All the way sober,” he said.
Baby Bob and I drove out to my mother’s, out by Pottsville.
Mom answered the door and let out a squeal. “You never told me you were pregnant,”
she said as she took Baby Bob and rocked him in her arms.
“I guess I forgot,” I said, smiling big to make it seem like it’d been a joke all along.
We went inside and she microwaved us some food in her fancy new Litton. It smelled
great, even just spinning around in there. I remember those ads, too—for the woman whose
family eats in shifts—because the first time I heard that on the TV, I thought the voiceover had
said, “For the woman whose family eats ‘n’ shits.”
Over congealing mac and cheese, I told her about my special condition.
“What’d the doctor say?” she asked. I shrugged. “When’d this happen?” she asked. I
looked into my mother’s face and saw the wrinkles all mapped out and her cheeks drooping and
neck a mess. Still, I wanted her to take me in her arms and tell me I’d be fine, that everything
would be fine. But she stayed on her side of the kitchen table, looking unblinkingly back at me. I
figured she was examining me, my face, guessing at what I’d been through. I shrugged again.

Baby Bob and Me 6
Two days later, she had me hooked up to one of those squeezing things the doc had put
me on but this time it was coming down the hose into an unmarked fifth bottle. I don’t know how
she talked me into it. She’d said something about helping out with the rent, but it was more likely
some weakness deep in me that didn’t allow me to refuse my mother anything. The whiskey
pinged against the empty glass bottle at first and then against itself, where it sounded like
Gordon’s piss splashing into the toilet when he drank his manners away and couldn’t be bothered
by closing the bathroom door.
We lined the first few bottles up on the kitchen counter. “I’m proud of you,” Mom said.
“Proud?”
“It looks like a regular old bottle of booze,” she said.
“Well, I’ll be. I feel like Mr. Jack Daniels himself is about to swoop down and whisk me
away to his mansion in Tennessee.”
“Now,” Mom said, looking disapprovingly at me.
But the thing was that Baby Bob loved Mom. He was content crawling around her house
and yard, napping on the soft carpet that wasn’t all itchy like the old shag Gordon and I had.
Whenever I couldn’t get Baby Bob to fall asleep at night, I’d call Mom in to sing him a song and
he’d be out in a snap, lolling in her arms until she let him down gentle into the crib.
Mom and I kept at the bottling. After a few days, she had to go into town to get some
more bottles and boxes to pack them in while I pumped away on the couch. I watched the news
and heard about the Middle East and the prices of crude oil by the barrel. When Mom came
home, she said that tomorrow was our day to get gas but we’d have to get there early in the
morning before they ran out so we could run the booze down to Jay’s General later on.
Baby Bob slept upstairs in my old crib—that horrid, splintery thing, nothing near as good

Baby Bob and Me 7
as the one Gordon built for him back at home—while I pumped and Mom watched.
“I miss Gordon,” I said.
“Gordon?”
“Baby Bob’s father,” I said.
“I don’t see a ring.”
“No,” I said. “I don’t expect you do.”
The next day it was all predawn dark blues and headlights. Looked like that famous Van
Gogh through my blurry morning eyes. The gas station read eighty-three cents—way up from
what it was two weeks before. We got third position in line and the cars streamed in behind us,
waiting for the place to open.
Mom made me get out and fill the car. I took off the Volvo’s gas cap and put the nozzle
in the hole and held down the lever. The pump whirred to action and gave the hose a jolt and I
heard the liquid streaming in. Mom leaned out the driver’s window. “I can’t believe that it’s
come to this,” she said. It was a cold October morning, and daylight still hadn’t broken. Baby
Bob was in his baby seat, pawing at the fabric of the Volvo’s ceiling that hung down loosely. “I
hear the trucks shipping food can’t get out to some real isolated areas, like out in the desert, and
that the people there are losing it, starting in on family pets,” Mom said.
“I’m sure they’re not,” I said. The pump clicked, letting me know the tank was full—or
that it was all I was getting.
“You don’t know, Anne,” Mom said, “When you take the modern out of people we’re
left with a bunch of old crazies, making it their own way. All these rules we live by become
more like suggestions, and then they drop away entirely.”
I got back in the car and Baby Bob started to cry so I reached back and unbuckled him. I

Baby Bob and Me 8
picked him up and lifted my shirt and held him to my chest as the next person in line took our
spot at the pump.
#

#

#

Took to be all I could handle out there in Pottsville. Maybe Mom was happy to have me
home, but not for reasons like spending time with your only daughter and grandson is nice but
reasons like, See, everyone’s life is bound to fall apart. I told you so.
In February, when Baby Bob was turning one, Mom said she wanted to have a party for
the baby. She had a couple friends coming by and I had all the mind to invite Gordon, even tried
the home phone a few times. Nobody picked up though, and he must’ve disconnected our old
answering machine that I’d recorded some simple message on. I wondered where he was if he
wasn’t home. Maybe, I couldn’t help but think, he’d fled the joint, just as I had.
I spent a lot of my time—when I wasn’t helping Mom with the bottling—in bed. The
sheets were stiff like rice cakes and I didn’t want to think about all that had soiled them over
time. It was something to keep me warm and I couldn’t stand losing that.
The bash I was mostly in charge of even though it was Mom’s idea. “I’m busy with Baby
Bob,” she always said. She gave me a list of people from church, and then went through it with
me. I’d read the name and she’d tell me whether to circle it or cross it off. She told me that she
had some idea of who was worthy of an invitation. I wasn’t sure one hundred percent but I felt
like she had gotten hold of the church donation list and was basing her decisions on that.
I made up invitations and addressed envelopes and licked and stamped and Baby Bob
either played silly games with Mom, breastfed, or rolled this little truck that Gordon had gotten
him before we’d left back and forth. That truck could amuse him for hours. When he was hungry
he’d stick his little arms up in the arm like a football official. I’d feed him some crushed bananas

Baby Bob and Me 9
and let him suckle and he’d take a nap.
The RSVPs came in and we kept setting aside what was left of the whiskey money after
groceries and baby food and Mom’s mortgage for the party and then the day happened and Baby
Bob was one year old and there I was, sharing my mom’s living room with a bunch of old ladies.
Mom made everyone Hot Toddies with real Irish whiskey and Lipton tea laced with honey. The
old ladies passed Baby Bob around, each one would remark on his size, eye him up and down
like I imagine a farmer would do before buying a cow, and then hand him to the next set of
outstretched arms.
Maybe it was the Hot Toddy or maybe it was the fact that Gordon wasn’t there or maybe
it was my mom cooing in words that did not seem to be authentically hers or maybe it was the
year of Baby Bob’s life that had seemed so long while living but so quick in retrospect and
probably it was the second Hot Toddy or the third or maybe it was me, only me, feeling my body
heat up like some wild fever all over on Baby Bob’s second rotation around the circle of old
ladies or maybe it was all of it combined that made me run upstairs to cry.
After I calmed down I went back downstairs and Baby Bob was surrounded by torn up
wrapping paper and new toys. Lincoln Logs, 12-piece puzzles, coloring books, a plastic rocket
ship. “You didn’t wait,” I said to my mom.
“Have a piece of cake,” she said.
I ate a piece in the smallest bites I could. It wasn’t that I wanted to savor the flavor—it
was only store-bought yellow cake—but when I was eating nobody bothered me. Baby Bob was
in some old lady’s lap being spoon-fed tiny bits of icing and even Mom seemed somewhat
happy, running back and forth from the kitchen with cake and a bucket of ice and more whiskey
and, later, coffee.

Baby Bob and Me 10
When I was done with the cake I let the fork fall to the plate. Such a clatter it made and
none of those old ladies heard a thing.
The next day, Baby Bob and I woke up before Mom and fled Pottsville early in the
morning. I left the presents but of course I brought Baby Bob’s truck along. We drove the
highway at fifty-five because of the new gas conservation laws. America, they said, was on its
way to energy self-sufficiency. I didn’t know what driving slower had anything to do with that,
but I hoped it’d save me some money. I asked Baby Bob if it was better to drive slower for
longer or faster for shorter. He giggled and clapped his hands along with some song on the radio
and soon enough, even with the slow-going, we were back on familiar streets, passing the corner
stores where I knew the clerks and the stop signs I’d slowed to a million times before.
#

#

#

Gordon wasn’t home. I walked around the house with Baby Bob on my hip. Everything
looked the same as it was when I left. The house put on ice but for some dust accumulated. I set
Baby Bob in the kiddie chair at the kitchen table that hadn’t moved an inch. He immediately
reached his arms up for me to hold him. I turned from him and went to the cupboard and heard
Baby Bob start crying. I took out a glass and rinsed it and filled it from the tap. I turned the radio
on. The water was cold against my fillings. Pretty soon, the radio said, there was to be an
agreement made with the Arab countries after the rest of the Isreali troops pulled out of Egypt. I
drank the rest of the water and put the cup in the sink and sat down at the table with Baby Bob,
who kept at his incessant crying. I ran my finger through the thin gray layer of dust on the
kitchen table, and listened through Baby Bob’s racket for the sound of latch on the front door.


