I  wanted  to  be  beautiful.  She  was  beautiful.  That  was  the  first  thing  that  came  
into  my  head  when  I  saw  her.  You  are  beautiful.  She  was  also  wearing  these  amazing  
snakeskin  Prada  boots.  Her  feet—ha.  Her  feet  were  huge.  It  made  her  look  goofy.  I  
liked  her  goofiness.  It  made  her  different.  It  looked  good  on  her.  
On  my  first  day  as  her  nanny,  one  of  the  mommies  at  the  playground  joked  
that  we  were  spouses  (because  we  were  there  together  while  her  husband  stayed  at  
home,  looking  at  Facebook),  and  I  told  her,  “No,  I  like  men.  Always  for  me,  men.  Men,  
men,  men,  men  in  my  history,  no  women.”  Orlando  Bloom  is  my  perfect  man.  Or,  ha,  
anyone  from  Australia.      
Her  answer  was  to  laugh  (she  laughed  like  a  horse,  so  funny)  and  say,  “I’m  
married,  I  swear,  I  even  have  a  ring  to  prove  it!”  That  ring  was  huge.  It  was  a  huge  
square-­‐shaped  diamond.  I  hated  that  ring.  It  symbolized  her  richness  and  my  
poverty.  That  ring  was  the  huge  ugly  space  between  us.    
  
  
My  roommate  Maria  got  me  the  job.  She  asked  her  boss,  who  said  said,  “I  
think  I  know  someone.”  This  is  how  everything  in  New  York  works.  Someone  knows  
someone  who  knows  someone.  I  had  heard  (from  where,  I  could  never  remember—
was  it  a  poster  on  a  bus?)  that  your  employer  could  help  you  get  a  visa,  so  I  hoped  
this  “someone”  was  one  of  those  employers.    

  

When  I  entered  that  apartment  for  the  first  time,  from  the  elevator,  her  
personal  elevator,  I  thought:  I  want  this.  This  is  what  I  want.  I  want  an  apartment  
just  like  this  and  I  want  to  be  that  beautiful  woman  in  the  kitchen,  even  though  I  
could  only  see  the  back  of  her  at  that  moment.    
The  apartment  looked  like  a  page  out  of  the  issue  of  Vogue  I  had  just  been  
reading  on  the  train.  For  one  moment,  I  thought  I  would  show  her  the  magazine  
(maybe  it  actually  was  her  apartment  in  the  magazine?)  but  I  didn’t  do  that.  I  
wanted  to  play  cool.  
She  had  Jackie  on  her  hip.  She  was  on  the  phone.  When  she  turned  to  face  me,  
I  saw  she  had  a  nice  face.  Very  red  lips,  very  blue  eyes.  She  nodded  at  the  couch.  I  
went  to  sit  there,  and  I  watched.  She  swayed  her  body  so  Jackie  wouldn’t  cry.  She  
wore  black  jeans  and  a  pink  top—magenta  was  her  favorite  color,  it  must  have  
been—and  her  hair  was  like  a  mermaid’s:  long  and  so  many  shades  of  bright  blonde,  
going  down  her  back  like  a  waterfall.    
She  walked  into  another  room.  I  looked  around  me.  Red  velvet  couches  and  
potted  plants  by  the  windows.  Outside,  all  the  pretty  buildings,  gathered  like  friends.    
She  came  back  with  a  bigger  boy.  Both  boys  had  her  icy  yellow  hair.  The  
three  of  them  reminded  me  of  a  family  from  space,  or  Finlandia.  Icy  yellow  hair,  pale  
icy  skin,  icy  blue  eyes.  They  also  reminded  me  of  the  wax  people  at  the  museum  in  
Times  Square,  where  I  had  just  taken  a  photo  with  the  wax  Orlando  Bloom.  
“This  is  Herbie,”  she  said,  about  the  bigger  boy,  “And  this  is  Jackie,”  she  said  
about  the  little  one.  Her  voice  was  very  loud.  

“Hi  Herbie,  como  estas?”  I  spoke  in  Spanish  because  being  a  bilingual  nanny  
is  a  very  good  thing.  Herbie  turned  away  from  me.  Children  are  so  annoying.  I  would  
have  rather  done  something  else,  but  this  job  just  fell  onto  me,  and  I  needed  money  
to  survive  New  York.  “Herbie,”  I  said,  “are  you  hiding  in  your  mama’s  legs?”  When  I  
said  this,  my  face  got  rosada.  
“Oh,  thank  god  you  speak  English!  The  last  woman  who  came  barely  spoke  a  
syllable  of  English!  Ah!”  
“Of  course  I  speak  English.  This  is  America.”  I  heard  my  Salvadorian  accent  
when  I  said  “America.”  Next  time,  I  would  say  it  more  slow-­‐ly.  I  didn’t  tell  her  I  had  
basically  learned  English  from  chatting  with  people  in  chat  rooms  online.  That’s  
because  I  had  big  dreams,  bigger  dreams  than  my  friends  at  home.  If  someone  had  
asked  me  then  exactly  what  my  dreams  were,  I  don’t  think  I  could  have  answered.  I  
just  knew  I  wanted  to  be  like  this  woman,  who  people  thought  was  beautiful  
because  of  her  beautiful  things.    
“I  know!  Why  don’t  the  rest  of  your  people  know  that?”  She  laughed.  “No  
offense.”  She  ran  a  hand  through  her  hair.  Her  hands  were  as  big  as  her  feet.  She—
herself,  her  body—wasn’t  too  big  though.  She  was  normal  size,  same  size  as  me.    
“No  problem,”  I  said.    
“This  is  so  good!  You  can  talk  to  the  housekeeper.  She  doesn’t  understand  
anything  I  say,  it’s  bad.”  
“Sure.”  I  shrugged.    
“Great!”  
“Where  are  you  from?”    

“Kansas,”  she  said.      
I  did  not  know  one  thing  about  Kansas,  so  I  kept  my  mouth  shut.    
She  stared  for  a  long  time.  Inside  her  eyes,  I  was  not  sure  if  she  was  
mysterious  or  dead.  
Herbie  made  a  noise.  Our  attention  turned  to  the  boys.  That’s  how  it  is  with  
children:  your  attention  is  always  in  two  places.    
“Herbie,  can  you  say  hello?”  Herbie  didn’t  move.  “Herbie?”  She  began  to  sing.  
“Herbie,  Herbie,  Herbie,  Herb.”  It  was  to  the  rhythm  of  the  ABC  song.  I  thought  it  was  
very  nice  that  she  did  that.  
During  the  interview,  she  didn’t  ask  me  very  much  about  myself.  She  said  she  
liked  to  hire  people  based  on  a  vibe,  and  she  thought  I  had  a  good  vibe.  I  didn’t  know  
what  that  meant  until  I  went  home  and  Googled  it.  In  the  moment,  I  had  said,  
“Great.”  Thank  God  that  had  been  the  right  reaction.  
During  the  interview,  she  also  gave  me  the  facts.  “Here  are  the  facts,”  she  
said.  Jackie  was  eighteen  months,  Herbie  was  four.  Herbie  was  named  after  his  
father,  Herb.  Jackie  wasn’t  named  after  anybody,  but  wasn’t  it  a  cute  name?  Yes,  I  
said  it  was  very  cute.  She  would  need  me  to  work  every  weekend  from  8  am  to  
whenever  they  got  home  if  they  went  out.  They  went  to  a  lot  of  events.  It  was  
“exhausting,”  but  it  was  also  “part  of  the  deal.”  She  said  it  was  like  Spiderman.  
“Power  comes  with  great  responsibility.”  They  owned  an  investment  strategy  
business.  I  didn’t  know  what  that  meant,  but  if  it  bought  you  an  apartment  like  this,  
then  it  sounded  good  to  me!    

She  had  other  nannies  during  the  week.  Five  nannies  total.  Maybe  I  could  fill  
in  for  them  sometime,  based  on  my  schedule.  She  had  fired  the  last  weekend  nanny  
because  the  woman  didn’t  have  twenty  dollars  cash  on  her.  “Everyone  in  New  York  
should  have  twenty  dollars  cash  on  them  at  all  times!  Unless  they’re  homeless!  What  
if  we  have  another  9/11?  How  are  you  going  to  buy  a  water  bottle?”    
Yes,  I  said,  of  course.  She  said,  “Do  you  have  twenty  dollars  on  you?  Open  
your  purse,  let  me  see.”  I  didn’t  know  if  she  was  joking—it  was  very  hard  to  know  
with  her.  She  laughed  always,  but  was  not  funny  or  happy  in  her  laughter.  I  showed  
her  my  money.  I  counted  it  all.  “Forty  three  dollars,”  I  said.  She  said  that  was,  “Good,  
very  good.”  
I  had  been  waiting  for  her  to  notice  my  Marc  Jacobs  bag.  I  put  my  wallet  back  
in.  The  shiny  gold  label  was  pointed  in  her  direction.  “Is  that  real?”  she  asked.  I  had  
spent  three  months  working  for  it.  “Yes,  it’s  real,  of  course.  I  love  fashion,”  I  said.  I  
took  the  Vogue  out.  “See?”    
  

She  touched  the  leather.  “I  might  have  this  one.  Maybe,”  she  said,  “I  can’t  

remember.  Too  many  bags!  I  can’t  even  remember  them!”    
Then,  she  was  interested  in  my  jeans.  “Are  those  Citizens?”    
“Yes,”  I  said.  “The  high  waist.”  
She  pulled  the  fabric  at  the  knee.  She  had  no  problem  touching  other  people  
when  she  wanted.  “You’re  wearing,  like,  hundreds  of  dollars  worth  of  clothing.  You  
might  be  too  rich  to  work  here!”  
“No  no  no  no,”  I  said.  But  I  hoped  that  soon,  I  would  be  too  rich.  

She  would  pay  me  $13  an  hour,  which  wasn’t  so  much  (“You’re  really  going  to  
have  to  save  for  that  next  Marc  Jacobs!”),  but,  if  she  was  going  to  help  me  get  a  visa,  
she  would  have  to  help  pay  for  the  visa,  so  I  said  yes  yes  thirteen  is  fine!  I  had  heard  
your  employer  could  help  you  get  a  visa  here,  but  I  didn’t  want  to  mention  it  to  her  
yet.  Waiting  was  a  better  plan.  I  would  wait  six  months.    
The  boys  were  quiet.  She  said,  “Where  is  El  Salvador  anyway?  Herbie,  can  
you  ask  her?”  Herbie  didn’t  say  anything.  I  said  it  was  next  to  Honduras.  She  said,  
“Can  you  ask  her  where  Honduras  is?”  I  said,  “Next  to  El  Salvador.”  That  made  her  
smile.  Her  teeth  were  white,  even  though  I  thought  one  of  them  might  be  dying  
because  it  was  grey  at  the  top.  She  said  I  was  “clever.”    
I  kissed  the  boys  and  told  them,  “Nos  vemos  el  Sabado.”  I  thought  she  winked  
at  me,  so  I  winked  back.    
I  was  so  full  of  hope  then,  I  probably  imagined  that  wink.    
Then,  I  thought  if  we  owned  the  same  bag,  she  would  see  me.  She  would  see  
we  were  not  so  different.  Women.  Close  in  age.  Yes,  born  in  different  countries.  Yes,  
God  had  given  her  more—more  beauty,  more  whiteness,  more  money.  But,  I  was  
like  air.  Like  particles.  I  would  exist  in  her  space  and  become  part  of  it.  The  red  
couches  she  had  chosen,  the  plants  she  had  bought,  her  baby’s  bottles,  her  golden  
hair.  All  of  these  things  would  become  my  life.  Her  life  would  become  my  life.  
  
  

.    .    .  

  
On  Saturday,  at  8  am,  I  showed  up  blond.    

  

Before,  I  was  a  sentence.  Now  I  was  a  highlighted  sentence.    
“Holy  shit,”  she  said,  “is  that  a  wig?”  
Herbie  and  Jackie  were  watching  cartoons  in  the  living  room.  The  TV  was  on  
so  loud.  
“No,”  I  said,  “it’s  my  hair.”  I  listened  to  myself  say  “herr.”  Next  time,  more  
slow-­‐ly.  She  didn’t  look  like  she  liked  it.  I  had  to  know.  “You  don’t  like  it?”    
“No,  no,  I  like  it,  whatever.  I  mean,  you  look  like  a  drug  dealer,  but  who  
cares!”  
“Honey?”  It  was  the  Dad,  Herb,  calling  from  the  bedroom.  He  was  as  loud  as  
she  was.  “We  need  to  get  tickets  to  Palm  Beach.  Have  you  gotten  tickets  to  Palm  
Beach?”  
“No,  Palm  Beach  sucks!  I  don’t  want  to  go  there!”  
I  laughed.  My  laugh  made  her  smile.  
When  Herb  appeared,  my  first  thought  was:  a  Russian  doll  who  looked  like  
Santa.  Short,  round,  old.  This  meant  she  had  not  grown  up  with  money  in  Kansas.  
This  meant  she  was  more  like  me  than  I  had  thought.  
“Let’s  go  to  Jamaica  or  something!”  
Herb  shrugged  like  it  might  be  okay  with  him.  He  took  his  computer  to  the  
couch.  He  lay  down,  put  it  on  his  belly,  and  opened  it.  Herb  only  put  himself  into  
positions  where  if  he  closed  his  eyes,  he  could  sleep  for  hours.  
“Mommy,  I’m  hungry,”  the  little  Herbie  said.  
“Talk  to  the  person  who  takes  care  of  you,”  she  said.  “This  is  your  new  
nanny.”  She  pointed  at  me.  Her  hand  was  shaped  like  a  gun.  Herbie  didn’t  blink.  

To  me,  she  said,  “I  just  don’t  enjoy  the  Mommy  stuff,  shoot  me.”  She  sighed.  
“I’m  doing  my  make-­‐up,  you  feed  them.”  I  watched  her  walk  away.  She  wore  a  pretty  
dress.  I  would  have  worn  a  dress  if  I  weren’t  working.  It  was  the  perfect  weather  for  
a  dress,  she  was  right.  
I  found  Herbie  a  granola  bar  in  the  cabinet,  and  I  put  milk  in  a  bottle  for  baby  
Jackie.  I  put  them  in  their  strollers,  and  sang  to  them  in  Spanish  while  I  put  on  their  
shoes  and  socks.  
At  the  park,  we  put  the  boys  in  swings.  Jackie  in  the  baby  swing  and  Herbie  in  
the  big  boy  swing.  I  liked  Jackie  better.  He  didn’t  talk.      
“Do  you  enjoy  the  park?  I  just  don’t  enjoy  the  park.”  
I  shrugged.  
This  was  when  the  mommy  said,  “Are  you  spouses?”  and  I  said  men,  men,  
men,  men,  and  she  showed  her  ring.  
When  the  mommy,  who  was  round  and  wearing  unflattering  stripes  walked  
away,  she  said  quietly,  “I’m  sorry,  but  how  can  you  be  fat  and  live  in  New  York  City?”  
I  laughed  and  shook  my  head.  “You  are  funny,”  I  said.  “Too  honest.”  
This  made  her  very  happy.  She  liked  compliments.  Her  favorite  was  when  
you  told  her  she  looked  good.  She  smiled.  In  the  sun,  I  could  see  the  powder  on  her  
skin.    
After  the  park,  we  went  to  have  lunch.  She  spoke  to  me  through  speaking  to  
the  children.  “And  then,  Herbie,  your  new  nanny  will  take  you  to  lunch  at  Whole  
Foods,  or  anywhere,  I  don’t  care.  And  Jackie,  she’ll  check  your  diaper  every  two  

hours  or  whenever  it  smells  like  shit.  Then  she  will  take  you  home  to  nap,  Jackie,  
while  Herbie  does  art—“  
“—no  art!”  
“Or  reads.”  
“No!”  
  

“Good  luck  with  that,”  she  laughed.  “Also,  we  have  a  security  system  in  the  

house,  so  I  can  always  check  on  you  through  the  cameras.”    
“That  is  funny,”  I  said.    
“Oh,  it’s  not  funny,”  she  said,  “I’m  dead  serious.”  But  she  laughed.  She  did  not  
look  dead  serious.  “And  when  you’re  out,  I  want  pics.  Pics  of  my  boys!”  She  touched  
Jackie,  then  Herbie  on  the  head.  “Do  you  have  an  iPhone?”  
I  took  it  out  and  showed  her.  I  wanted  her  to  say  something  about  my  
background  photo  (of  a  beach  near  my  hometown),  but  she  did  not.  
“You  have  an  iPhone,  it’s  a  miracle!”  We  were  standing  in  line  at  Whole  
Foods.  The  man  on  the  speakers  was  saying,  “Register  fourteen,  register  twenty-­‐
two.”  She  said,  “You’re  like  so  much  more  advanced  than  your  countrymen!  Or  
women!  Whatever!”  
On  the  walk  home,  through  their  cool  New  York  City  neighborhood,  where  
everyone  looked  like  a  model  or  an  actor,  I  saw  my  blond  hair  in  the  reflections  of  
the  store  windows.    
These  were  the  stores  from  my  magazines.    
And  this  was  a  woman  who  shopped  at  those  stores.  

As  we  pushed  the  same  brand  of  stroller  down  the  same  street  with  the  same  
color  hair,  I  wondered  who  could  tell  the  difference  between  us.  Our  feet  moved  at  
the  same  time.  Like  together,  we  were  one  horse.  For  a  moment,  as  I  smelled  the  
cool  air  and  noticed  the  orange  leaves  on  the  sidewalk,  I  forgot  she  was  even  there.  
  
  

.    .    .  

  
Herb  the  Russian  doll  was  exactly  where  we  had  left  him,  but  now  he  had  
takeout  boxes  all  around  him  on  the  couch.  He  opened  his  eyes  when  he  heard  us.  
“Honey?!?”  
“Honey!”  
“We  need  to  get  ready  for  the  event!”  
“The  event?!?”  
“Mitch’s  thing  and  then  the  fundraiser!”  
“Honey!”  
We  parked  the  strollers.  “You  can  put  Jackie  down  for  his  nap  and  play  with  
Herbie  in  the  playroom,”  she  said.  
Same  as  in  the  morning,  she  did  not  give  the  details—for  example,  which  
room  was  Jackie’s?—but  I  thought  this  was  because  she  knew  I  was  smart  and  she  
trusted  me.  I  unstrapped  the  boys.  She  went  to  her  room.  I  saw  she  had  left  her  
diamond  ring  on  the  counter.  I  was  smart.  I  could  be  trusted.    
I  turned  on  the  TV  for  Herbie  while  I  put  Jackie  to  sleep.  Afterwards,  I  sat  
with  him  and  watched.  Thomas  the  Train.    

  

It  was  then  that  I  saw  her  ugly  side  for  the  first  time.  She  opened  the  door  
quickly,  walked  across  the  room  quickly.  She  was  wearing  all  black.  Black  fabric  was  
in  the  air  behind  her.  She  was  like  a  bat  or  a  witch.  She  turned  off  the  TV.  “It’s  art  
time,”  she  said.  “Remember,  I  can  see  you.”  She  pointed  to  a  camera,  a  real  camera  
up  high  on  the  wall,  and  left.  
What  had  changed?  What  had  changed?  She  was  like  a  different  person.  I  
wanted  to  cry.  We  did  art.  Would  the  camera  notice  I  was  crying?  She  hated  me,  she  
hated  me.  What  had  I  done?  I  needed  her  to  like  me.  I  needed  a  visa.  I  needed  a  rich  
man.  Orlando  Bloom!  
Later,  Jackie  woke  up.  We  had  dinner.  Pasta  and  broccoli.  There  wasn’t  much  
food.  I  saw  there  was  another  camera  in  the  dining  room.  And  another  one  in  the  
kitchen,  and  another  one  by  the  door.  She  texted  me,  “Pics  please!”  I  sent  pictures  of  
both  boys  eating.  I  had  to  take  so  many  to  get  two  good  ones.  Children  are  always  
moving.  She  responded,  “Cute!”  Her  exclamation  mark  relieved  me.  Good,  she  was  
happy  again.    
I  put  the  boys  to  bed.  Eight  o’clock  seemed  like  the  right  time.  Then,  I  waited.  
And  waited.  Where  was  she?  I  did  the  dishes,  I  wiped  the  counters.  I  imagined  her  at  
a  party,  watching  me  on  the  cameras  with  her  iPhone.  With  those  cameras,  she  could  
have  been  watching  me  all  the  time.  The  thing  was,  I  never  knew.  
I  ate  pretzel  chips  behind  the  cabinet  door  so  the  camera  in  the  kitchen  
wouldn’t  see  me.  I  noticed  she  had  taken  back  her  ring.  I  pretended  to  read  a  book  in  
English  and  closed  my  eyes  behind  the  book.  At  one  o’clock  in  the  morning,  they  
came  home.  I  rushed  from  the  playroom  to  the  door.    

“How  were  my  boys?”  she  asked.  Her  voice  was  so  nice,  so  sweet.  She  had  
turned  back  into  the  original  woman  I  had  met.  She  smelled  like  perfume.  I  felt  
confused.  
Herb  said  nothing  to  me.  He  went  to  the  couch  and  opened  his  computer.  
“Very  good.  We  ate  some  pasta  and  broccoli.”  
“Oh  good,  you  fed  them  greens?”  She  smiled.    
“Yes,”  I  said.  
“Great  job  today,”  she  said.  She  put  her  purse  on  the  counter  and  sighed.  “Oh,  
we  had  so  much  fun  at  the  benefit.  I  wish  you  could  have  been  there  with  the  boys.  
Next  time,  maybe  we’ll  bring  you.”  
“Yes,”  I  said.  Maybe  I  would  meet  a  man  there.  
“Well,”  she  touched  my  arm  so  gently,  “get  some  rest.  We’ll  see  you  at  eight.”    
  
  

.    .    .  

  
Seven  hours  later,  I  came  back.  In  the  morning,  she  left  us  forty  dollars  and  
said,  “We’ll  be  gone  all  day.  Take  them  out,  they  get  bored  at  home.”  She  wore  riding  
boots,  her  hair  was  in  a  ponytail.  “And  Lupe  is  coming,”  she  laughed,  “you  can  make  
a  native  friend.”    
I  didn’t  want  any  native  friends.  Especially  not  if  they  were  like  Lupe.    
Lupe  reminded  me  of  a  wolf.  She  had  black  hairs  coming  out  of  her  chin,  and  
grey  hairs  growing  by  her  ears.  I  think  her  teeth  were  even  pointy.    

  

Lupe  was  lazy.  She  told  me  she  did  what  a  lot  of  Latinos  do.  She  pretended  
not  to  speak  English  so  she  could  work  less.  To  everything,  she  said,  “Yes.”  Yes,  yes,  
yes,  yes,  even  though  what  she  really  meant  was,  “I  do  not  care  what  you  are  saying  
to  me.”  
She  called  our  boss  La  Fea.  In  English:  the  ugly.  When  I  asked  why,  she  said  
La  Fea  was  black  inside.  Like  a  black  aura?  No,  Lupe  said,  La  Fea  didn’t  even  have  an  
aura.  She  was  just  black  inside.  I  didn’t  want  to  ask  her  if  La  Fea  had  gotten  her  a  
visa.  She  might  be  jealous  if  I  got  one,  and  then  she’d  want  one,  too,  and  I  would  get  
the  blame.    
I  did  everything  right  for  the  cameras.  All  the  time,  I  was  performing  a  little  
bit.  When  we  went  to  the  park,  she  wrote,  “Where  are  my  pics!?!?!”  I  sent  pics.  She  
wrote,  “Amazing!”  So  she  was  happy  today.  It  was  this  type  of  happy  person  who  
would  help  me  get  a  visa.  The  witch  person  would  definitely  not  help  me  get  a  visa.    
That  night,  they  got  home  at  midnight.  I  was  pretending  to  read  the  same  
book  in  English.  I  went,  again,  to  the  kitchen  to  meet  them.    
“How  was  your  night?”    
Herb  went  to  the  TV.  She  took  her  pink  scarf  off  and  sighed.  “Stupid  people  
should  be  killed.”  
I  nodded  to  show  my  sense  of  humor.  
She  took  off  her  ring  and  put  it  on  the  counter.  “Let  me  pay  you,”  she  said,  
tying  up  her  hair.  I  couldn’t  wait  for  my  hair  to  be  that  long.  Herb  turned  the  TV  on  
loud.  No  one  asked  about  the  children.  She  went  into  her  room  and  came  back  with  

cash—hundred  dollar  bills,  there  must  have  been  a  safe  in  the  bedroom—and  
handed  it  to  me.    
“How  was  Lupe?”  she  asked.  
“She  was  okay.”  
“Okay?”  
“She  left  socks  in  the  kitchen.”  
  

“Where?”  

  

I  pointed  generally  at  the  kitchen.  

  

“Gross,”  she  said.  “If  she  does  it  again,  maybe  I’ll  fire  her.”  The  elevator  came.  

“Well,  have  a  great  weekend!”  
  

Lupe  hadn’t  left  socks  anywhere.  I  don’t  know  why  I  wanted  to  get  her  in  

trouble.  Why  did  I  want  to  get  Lupe  in  trouble?  Because  she  was  a  gross  old  
immigrant  housekeeper  and  I  would  never  be  a  gross  old  immigrant  housekeeper.  
She  was  making  all  of  us  look  bad.    
  
  
  

.    .    .  

  

  
The  next  weekend,  I  came  in  my  riding  boots  and  my  pink  scarf,  but  she  

wasn’t  there.  Only  Lupe  was  there,  and  a  note:  “Here’s  forty  bux.  See  you  tonight.”    
Lupe  gave  me  advice  about  being  an  immigrant.  She  told  me  where  to  buy  
cheap  groceries  in  Queens.  Stupid  Lupe,  I  didn’t  live  in  Queens.  I  lived  in  Washington  
Heights!  She  also  told  me  not  to  buy  any  more  expensive  purses.  She  told  me  to  save  

my  money  because  crazy  people  like  La  Fea  fired  people  like  Lupe  and  me  all  the  
time.  
  

“You  and  me  are  not  the  same,”  I  said.  

  

Lupe  the  wolf  shook  her  old  head  as  she  continued  to  Swifter  the  floor.  

  
  

.    .    .  

  

  
  
When  she  came  home  that  night,  she  wore  a  zebra-­‐print  belt.  The  next  day,  I  
wore  a  zebra-­‐print  belt.  I  waited  for  her  to  comment  on  this  coincidence,  but  she  did  
not.  
For  weeks,  it  went  on  like  this.  I  barely  saw  her.  She  left  us  money  and  went  
out  all  day.  We  communicated  in  text  messages.  I  texted  her  pics,  pics  pics  so  she  felt  
involved  in  the  lives  of  her  children.  Even  though,  when  she  came  home,  she  was  
usually  so  tired,  she  forgot  to  ask  about  them.    
Lupe  did  tell  me  one  true  thing.  At  this  job,  you  just  had  to  survive.  I  was  
learning  ways  to  survive.  In  the  morning,  I  put  the  children  in  different  positions  in  
the  park.  Usually  I  did:  on  the  swings,  at  the  picnic  table  with  a  snack,  drawing  with  
chalk,  and  the  slide,  but  only  if  it  was  a  cloudy  day  because  the  slide  was  not  in  the  
shade.  All  the  pictures  had  to  be  in  the  shade.  Otherwise,  La  Fea  might  recognize  the  
light  of  morning.  When  she  texted  me,  “Pics!!!”  I  sent  her  the  pics  and  pretended  we  
were  at  the  park  when  we  were  really  at  the  Whole  Foods  cafeteria  for  hours,  or  at  
Sephora  buying  make-­‐up.    

We  were  alone  a  lot.   One  thing  I  did  not  expect  was  to  love  the  children.  They  
were  very  annoying,  yes,  but  we  spent  so  many  days  together,  I  began  to  care  for  
them.  La  Fea  seemed  the  most  excited  about  her  boys  when  she  told  me,  “I’m  going  
to  take  them  to  Africa.”  Of  course,  they  didn’t  know  what  Africa  was.  
La  Fea  was  such  a  hard  person  to  understand.  Sometimes,  she  was  so  nice,  
and  other  times,  she  was  terrible.  One  day,  after  she  got  mad  at  me  for  making  all  
the  broccoli—“What  kind  of  person  makes  this  much  broccoli?!?”—even  though  she  
had  told  me  to  make  all  the  broccoli  that  morning,  I  went  to  the  bathroom  with  my  
iPhone  and  Googled  the  disease  that  splits  your  personality  into  two  or  more.  She  
might  have  had  this  disease.    
I  cried  many  times  in  that  bathroom.  I  thought  about  quitting  many  times.  
But:  the  visa.  I  had  to  wait  six  months.  And  I  loved  her  boys  now,  and  I  had  gotten  
used  to  the  airy  smell  of  her  huge  apartment.  I  liked  the  plants  by  the  windows,  and  
the  red  velvet  couches  she  had  chosen,  and  I  even  liked  the  soft  brand  of  tissue  she  
bought  for  the  bathroom,  even  as  I  used  it  to  dry  my  tears.  
  
  

.    .    .  

  
Finally,  six  months  passed.  I  waited  for  a  happy  day  to  ask  about  the  visa.    
La  Fea’s  response  was:  “Oh,  are  you  joking?  Because  you  must  be  joking.”  
Was  she  joking?  Why  was  she  laughing?    
“No,  I  am  dead  serious,”  I  said,  to  use  her  expression.  

  

  

“How  would  I  possibly  get  you  a  visa?  People  don’t  just  get  visas.  I’m  not  the  
President!”  
I  began  to  cry,  right  there  in  the  kitchen  with  her.  I  thought  she  might  hold  
me.  Or  at  least  give  me  one  of  her  expensive  tissues.  She  did  not.  My  tears  did  not  
move  her.  She  was  wax.  
I  went  home  crying.  All  week,  she  didn’t  text  me.  She  didn’t  care  how  I  was.  
When  I  came  back  to  work,  she  wasn’t  there.  It  was  just  Lupe,  who  said,  
“What  were  you  thinking?  Are  you  on  drugs,  girl?”  
I  felt  so  stupid.  I  had  misunderstood  everything.  Why  had  I  thought  she  could  
get  me  a  visa?  Had  it  been  a  poster  on  a  bus?  Or  had  I  imagined  it?      
“If  we  never  get  visas,  why  are  we  here?”  
“To  suffer  like  idiots.”    
  

“It’s  not  fair.”  

  

Lupe  said,  “Your  hope  has  made  you  blind.”  

  

There  was  the  view:  of  New  Jersey  out  the  beautiful  windows,  and  closer,  

Lupe  with  the  Swifter,  and  closest,  on  the  counter  in  front  of  me,  between  two  plants  
Lupe  had  moved  there  to  clean,  her  sparkly  diamond  wedding  ring.    
  

I  took  the  boys  to  the  park.  I  took  all  the  usual  photos.  When  she  texted  me,  

“Hey  Visa  girl,  send  pics!!!”  I  sent  the  pics.    
  

When  she  texted  me,  “Why  aren’t  you  home  for  naptime?  I  don’t  see  you  on  

the  cameras!”  I  responded:  “We  are  invisible.”    
  

She  never  answered.    

  

When  they  came  home,  at  two  o’clock  in  the  morning,  they  woke  me  up.  I  had  

been  working  for  eighteen  hours.  I  went  to  the  kitchen.  
  

“What  was  up  with  that  weirdo  text  you  sent  me  today?”  

  

I  thought  she  would  be  more  angry.  No,  she  was  laughing.  She  did  not  take  

me  seriously  at  all.  
  

I  had  her  hair.  I  had  her  Marc  Jacobs  bag.  Her  riding  boots,  her  Citizens,  her  

pink  scarf,  the  same  Burberry  long-­‐sleeved  shirt  she  had.  She  said  nothing  about  
this.      
  

So  I  did.  I  said,  “Do  you  like  my  outfit?”  

  

While  she  filled  a  water  glass,  she  said,  without  looking  at  me,  “Do  you  think  I  

haven’t  noticed  that  you  buy  the  exact  pieces  I  own?”  
  

I  was  shocked.  My  English  came  out  badly.  “I  owned  some  of  this  things  

before  I  ever  met  you!”  
  

She  blinked  many  times,  like  there  was  something  stuck  in  her  eye.  She  

sipped  her  water.  “Whatever,”  she  said.  “Also,”  she  pointed  her  gun  finger  at  my  
head,  “I  think  you  should  dye  your  hair  back.  This  isn’t  working  for  you.”  
  

I  was  still  thinking  about  how  I  had  owned  that  Marc  Jacobs  months  before  I  

ever  met  her!  But  it  was  useless  to  say  this,  and  useless  to  defend  my  hair.  I  was  also  
worried  I  would  say  “herr”  again.    
I  said,  “Can  you  pay  me  please?”  
  

“You’re  being  really  weird.”  She  sighed  and  tied  up  her  hair  as  she  walked  to  

her  room.  Herb  the  Russian  doll  turned  on  the  TV.    

I  looked  out  the  windows  at  the  lights  of  all  the  other  windows,  in  all  the  
other  buildings.  Together,  they  looked  crowded  and  unhappy.  
  

She  came  back  out  in  her  bathrobe,  her  expensive  silk  bathrobe.  She  handed  

me  the  cash.    
I  said,  “I  quit.”  
  

“Another  one  bites  the  dust,”  she  said.  “Give  me  your  keys.”  

  

I  had  been  ready  for  this  part.  I  took  her  keys  out  of  my  pocket.  I  had  already  

detached  them  from  my  keys.  I  handed  them  to  her.  She  nodded.  She  put  them  on  
the  counter.  She  looked  at  the  counter,  at  the  blank  space  that  was  there  now.  
I  walked  around  her.  I  pressed  the  button  for  the  elevator.  My  heart  was  
beating.  
The  elevator  came.  I  got  in.  She  put  her  hand  against  the  door  so  it  wouldn’t  
close.  She  looked  at  me  for  a  long,  long  time.  She  said  nothing.  She  looked  at  me  right  
in  the  eyes.  She  was  in  there.    
It  was  not  until  weeks  later  that  I  understood  the  look  she  gave  me.  When  I  
called  Lupe,  crying—what  was  I  going  to  do?  I  needed  a  job  to  survive  New  York!—
Lupe  said,  “So  you  tried  to  sell  the  ring  and  you  found  out  it  was  a  fake.”  I  said  yes.  It  
was  worth  nothing.  La  Fea  always  left  it.  It  was  a  test  to  all  her  workers,  and  I  had  
failed  the  test.    
Lupe  got  me  a  job.  Cleaning.  Cleaning  the  apartment  of  a  rich  bitch  who  never  
sees  her  children.  She  is  a  different  kind  of  bitch  than  La  Fea—La  Fea  was  prettier.  
Sometimes,  when  I’m  home  alone,  Swiftering,  I  will  remember  the  last  time  La  Fea  

looked  at  me.  How  she  was  in  there,  and  how  she  saw  me.  She  knew  exactly  who  I  
was.    
  
  


