The wolves are out again tonight, roaming a place that no longer exists. They knife
between hollow limestone houses, tracking, pitching their heads towards each new scent. Their
pelts are slick with moonlight, their eyes malignantly agleam. Even on the cobbled streets, their
paws are silent. A single howl—low at first, almost sorrowful—triggers another howl, then
another.
Unable to ignore the noise, Marion splays her book across her lap and shuts her eyes.
There has been little to do in the village these past few weeks other than read by the fireplace
and, now, even this comfort is being stolen from her. She recalls a time, just after the Great War,
when wolves had been driven out of France—killed off either for sport or as collateral. It is 1946
now, the first spring since the Second War ended, and wolves have only just begun returning to
the country.
Her husband, Lucas, paces upstairs in the bedroom, a crudely-rolled cigarette dangling at
his hip and molting ash onto the floorboards. He knows precisely where the wolves are headed:
Monsieur Bernard’s old house, across the street. He tries to gauge their distance, to trace their
path in his mind, and soon they arrive—three or four, at first—but more appear, gnashing at
Bernard’s front door and scarring his stone walls. They writhe around the house, a mass of
hackles and teeth.
When construction on the dam began, Marion and Lucas watched everyone in the village
siphon their lives into suitcases and leave. Most went to Paris, hoping to begin anew like the city
itself; some went east across the Alps and sought Swiss citizenship. Soon the streetlamps cast no
shadows. Soon the cobbles fell quiet as headstones. Now Marion and Lucas are alone, the last
two people left in Génissiat.
From downstairs, Marion hears Lucas call her name. “Come quick,” he says. “They’re
outside again.” His disembodied voice seems divine.
She pauses before entering the bedroom, leaning against the doorframe and watching her
husband, who is so focused and so forcibly still beside the window he could be mistaken for a
Rodin sculpture. She loved the symmetry of their ages when they first met, and the kilometerlong walk from her house to his—that worn patch of grass where they met midway each time.
But she is no longer twenty-three, he no longer thirty-two, and they no longer meet each other
midway on anything, instead choosing to draw lines further and further onto their own sides,
waiting for the other to give in by degrees.
“Wouldn’t you like to head to bed?” she asks. “It’s late.”
“Look at them. Why are they so fixated on that house? They have the entire village to
ravage.”

Reclamation / Page 3
“They’re animals,” she says. “There’s no reason for anything they do.”
But Lucas’s mind is on the pistol stowed in the dresser. Despite being on tour for two
years, he has fired it only twice. The first shot was in a civilian living room in Le Havre. A
member of Lucas’s troop accused a Flemish family of treason, tying them up by their wrists,
tossing them on the floor, and squaring his gun against the youngest’s cheek. Lucas fired at the
ceiling to restore order. The second shot was in a barn on the French-German border. Lucas went
inside to rest, but found a German soldier there, sleeping behind a stack of hay bales. In fear, he
pulled the trigger before the German could wake.
“What are you doing?” Marion asks, watching him hunt through the dresser drawer.
“It’s just to scare them away,” he says. “They’re pests. Same as rodents or weeds.”
He opens the window and holds the pistol in front of him, elbows anchored against his
chest. Three shots split the belly of the night; three coils of smoke drift from the barrel. The
bullets land meters away from the pack, skipping up soil as they lodge into the earth. Just enough
to make the wolves perk their heads and scatter.
Lucas turns, offers a bashful grin, and says, “Now we’ll be able to sleep.”
“Very smart. After we go deaf, we won’t have to listen to the wolves when they come
back.”
“I can fire a few more for good measure. Make sure I get the job done.”
“With that aim? You’re likely to blind us.”
There are suggestions that these are the same two people from before the war. She still
leaves the bathroom light on. He still adjusts his watch like a marksman, waiting for the seconds
to align. She still hopes to learn piano. He still avoids learning how to poach eggs. She has never

Reclamation / Page 4
been on a boat. He has never been ice skating, successfully. But that’s all these things are.
Habits. Idiosyncrasies. Quotations of what makes a person.
They noticed each other’s changes as soon as Lucas returned home, three months ago.
His body had been pared down, made gaunt; now his cheekbones press like knifepoints. The
parenthesis around her mouth has furrowed deeper. There is something exhausted in the way she
speaks, something rageful in the way he laughs. They fumble trying to hold hands and knock
teeth trying to kiss. It is the decay of time and war and distance.
They stand before each other now, forcing their smiles, but feeling like strangers—he
with the gun cradled in his hands like a small bird, she with her hair pulled back and a book
beneath her arm. In this moment, Lucas wonders if he loves his home enough to die for it, and
Marion wonders if she loves Lucas enough to die for him.
***
The village is preserved in a thin frost the next morning. Chutes of light fall between the
clouds, shifting across the red clay rooftops. Marion heads leisurely towards the edge of town,
untroubled by the raw lashes of April wind. She has made up her mind. She is going to the dam,
partly to be around the hum of other people and partly because of a dark need to see the structure
forcing her from her home.
She told Lucas she was going for a walk, but didn’t tell him where, knowing he would
object. These tailored truths give her a tiny thrill. During the war, with Lucas away and many of
her friends too frightened to go outside, there had been no secrets, only secrecy.
She soon finds herself among the treeless, unfurling hills. She has adored the wilderness
since childhood, finding freedom in its expanse and clarity in its silence. She knows well the
feeling of briars catching at her ankles, drawing blood. Even though there was little sign of the

Reclamation / Page 5
occupation during the war—Génissiat being too innocuous and remote for German attention—
she hasn’t ventured this far in years, knowing not to wander outside the village by herself. The
confinement dismayed her. Weeks passed where she didn’t have a conversation with anyone; she
had to remind herself to sing nursery rhymes, once in the morning and once at night, to keep her
vocal cords from atrophying. Trapped alone in her house, the war felt like an endless, unbroken
winter.
After half an hour, she hears the distant chime of construction. Shovels strike soil.
Hammers align rebar. And then she sees it. Even from afar and even unfinished, the dam is
monstrous, towering over the ravine, still draped in a network of scaffolding. Workers cluster at
the base of the dam and, as she gets closer, Marion notices they are either too young or too old to
be there. The war has taken the middle aged and able bodied, leaving only these teenagers with
reedy arms and these bent and quivering old men to toil away.
As compensation for relocating, Lucas, along with all the other men in Génissiat, was
offered a job building the dam; the choice was either that, or a flat fee of four hundred francs.
Everyone took the money. Lucas refused both options at first—it was the principle, he said—but
Marion eventually breached his stubbornness and convinced him to take the money too.
Although she continues to feel as if Lucas is keeping her in some liminal state, forcing her to
cling to the edges of a beaten and lurching rope bridge while he decides when—or even if—they
will leave Génissiat, she’s comforted knowing they will receive the money soon. At least Lucas
is being sensible in his stubbornness, she thinks.
She notices a worker approaching her then, but she is so captivated by the dam she
doesn’t break her gaze until he is right beside her. He is young, perhaps a teenager himself, but
speaks with confidence.

Reclamation / Page 6
“Can I help you?” he asks.
“I’m just out for a walk.”
“Curious about the dam? Many people come just to get a look.” His manner suggests he
is selling tickets to a budding tourist attraction. “Where are you from?”
“Injoux,” she says.
“Christ, really? That’s what, three kilometers from here?”
“About that far, yes. But the walk wasn’t so bad.” Lucas told her to say she lived in the
nearest town over if anyone ever asked; no one could know they hadn’t left Génissiat yet. “The
dam really is as large as they said it would be.”
“That’s right.” The boy turns to admire the structure. “Boss said it’ll be the largest in
Europe once we’re finished. Before we start work each morning, he tells us what a great symbol
it’ll be to the rest of the world.”
“And to the people of France.”
“Yes, yes. Us too, of course. Rise from the ashes and all that.” A sharp, two-fingered
whistle suddenly climbs from the ravine. Marion sees someone, an old man, slumped over,
gripping his shovel for support. Workers begin knotting around him, offering water, bringing
him to his feet. “I should go,” the boy says. “You’re fine to stay here as long as you like. I just
have to ask you not to get any closer.”
“Of course,” Marion says. “I can see it all perfectly from right here.”
She looks at the dam again, enchanted, and imagines torrents of water rushing through its
cavernous sluiceways. She pictures its cement balustrade rising as high as the surrounding hills.
“Just make sure you get home before dark,” the boy says. “The wolves have been going
mad lately.”

Reclamation / Page 7
***
Lucas sits in the living room that same morning, smoking and listening to the radio—a
comfort lost to him during the war, which he savors now. The broadcaster’s unhurried voice
feels like a single thread running through every home in the country. Sonata interludes rise from
the speaker. Chopin’s light, tumbling fingers. Bach’s patient and precise hands. These melodies
urge themselves upon Lucas like a sedative until he starts dozing in his chair.
A knock comes at the door. Three hard raps, jolting Lucas from his half sleep. He sees a
figure in the windowpane, fragmented and impossible to discern. It can’t be Marion. She said she
would be gone for hours. He stamps out his cigarette, runs a hand through his hair, tightens his
bathrobe around him.
He has never seen the woman at the door before. She wears a twill, knee-length coat and
has a felt hat angled on her head. “Mr. Lucas Mercier?” she asks.
Lucas straightens his shoulders, hoping to fill the doorway, and extends his hand. “Yes.
Lucas Mercier. Private First Class.”
“I’m with the rezoning commission,” the woman says. “Our records show you have yet to
file for your relocation check. This was the only address we had for you and I’ve been ordered to
give you this.” She presses a letter into Lucas’s palm and leaves with a brisk nod. Lucas tears the
envelope open before the door swings shut.

Dear Mr. Lucas Mercier,
The Ministry of Ecology and Sustainable Development has been alerted to the fact that
you have not yet filed the necessary paperwork to receive your relocation check (₣400), and we
have reason to believe you may still be residing at 21 Rue de Vieux Bourg. You will be given two
weeks, or until 15 April, to collect your belongings and leave. If you choose not to do so, you will
incur all appropriate penalties: a forfeiture of your relocation compensation, a fine of ₣80, and a
maximum of ninety days in prison.

Reclamation / Page 8

It feels like something chemical is frothing in Lucas’s chest. He can’t tell Marion about
the letter. She would want to leave Génissiat immediately. This thought, the idea of walking
towards the new and unknown, terrifies him. They still have so much time before the dam will be
finished, months even. If only they could stay in Génissiat until then.
He decides to get out of the house. Clear his head. Wandering through the village, with
its vacant stone buildings on either side, feels like walking down an abandoned corridor. There is
a foreign, ominous echo each time Lucas’s heel strikes the road—a stark contrast from a time
when the cafés were lined with old men sipping coffee and smoking cigarettes, a time when
handcarts clacked along the cobblestones. Génissiat is the only home Lucas has ever known, and
it is this image, one lost to the years between wars, which he clings to.
Here is the corner where a one-armed fisherman sold his catch on a rickety, two-wheeled
cart. Here is where, as a boy, he saw a woman’s purse split open and shower coins into the street,
and where he grabbed whatever he could before running home, his heart beating madly. Here a
group of old women met every Sunday for pinochle. Here is the alley where he and his boyhood
friends waged imaginary war; sticks replaced carbines, twine was looped over shoulders instead
of bandoliers. Soon it will all be underwater.
No one will remember this tiny river town or the people who lived here. Lucas heard the
buildings aren’t even going to be demolished once the dam is finished; they are so small that it’s
more cost effective simply to submerge them. He looks up and pictures the keels of cargo ships
carving water forty meters above his head. He imagines his whole village at the bottom of a
reservoir—perfectly intact, but discarded forever.

Reclamation / Page 9
While at the front, Lucas saw entire cities gashed open by the war. Buildings
disemboweled by toddler-sized artillery shells. Schoolhouses stripped to their skeletal frames. A
bookstore burning until daybreak, thousands of lit pages fluttering through its glassless windows,
cartwheeling into the sky, kindling their own flames. He has seen worlds end all across the
country, but he finds himself unprepared for the end of his world. He consoled himself during the
war by thinking there was some tacit promise: live long enough to return home and your home
will be there when you return.
He tracks throughout the village, carried by these memories, following familiar contours
and age-abraded footpaths, until he is standing outside his own house again. From across the
street, Bernard’s house looks lifeless, withering faster than it should be after only a handful of
weeks. Lucas went inside Bernard’s house only once, just before he left for the front. Bernard
had been a tunneler in the Great War and Lucas believed the old man could offer advice or, at
least, solace.
Bernard’s living room was melancholy and cluttered. Dirty clothes were strewn about. A
soup bowl was repurposed as an ashtray. There was a rumor in the village that Bernard had been
caught in a tunnel collapse—that he was never the same after returning home—and Lucas, who
had known this rumor since he was a boy, could not stop thinking about it during their
conversation, in which Bernard said many untethered things. He gave cryptic anecdotes and
scraps of advice: carry dry socks to avoid gangrene, never pet a stray hound because the
Germans lash landmines to them. When they shook hands, Lucas pictured Bernard clawing
through a meter of soil, suffocating, thrashing, fighting to find light.
***

Reclamation / Page 10
The mantel clock notches seconds into the silence while they cook dinner. Lucas
scavenges through the kitchen for stray ingredients he can add to the stew, leaving all the
cupboard doors open and wavering, phantomlike. Marion follows behind, closing each one,
concealing their emptiness. It has been three weeks since the baker left, four since the butcher.
She has nearly forgotten the taste of milk. He longs for a peach.
Whether it’s because of their dwindling food supply or the solitude of their empty town,
dinner now has a sense of sacrament. Marion sets the table with great care, using china that had
once been reserved for holidays and entertaining house guests. Lucas slices bread and pours wine
with the gravity of a man attempting to crack a safe. A fire is lit. Prayers are said, quietly and in
unison.
Tonight, as both try to veil their guilt, dinner is especially solemn. They speak in
platitudes, discussing the agreeable weather, the flavor of the stew. They chew without tasting.
Smile without feeling. If only he could show her the letter without making her want to leave. If
only she could explain the marvels of the dam without enraging him. It is intimacy’s greatest
virtue, as well as its greatest flaw: the words that cause harm become the hardest to say.
They finish dinner quickly—choosing to eat, rather than speak—and are left raking their
spoons against the bottom of their bowls, trying to salvage the tawny dregs of broth. For the first
time since they have been alone in the village, they cannot bring themselves to go to the
cupboards for more, despite their hunger, believing they must ration what they can.
“I think I should go to the market in Lyon tomorrow,” Marion says. “We need food.”
Lucas straightens in his chair, surprised she is the one to suggest this, and says, “Yes, I
think that’s a fine idea.”

Reclamation / Page 11
“I can take the train.” Truly, she wishes to go on the long, liberating ride to Lyon and to
be around all those people, all that life.
“Should I go with you?”
“If you’d like. But I think I can manage alone.”
“I’ll walk you to the station.”
It is exactly what Lucas wanted: a promise of more time. Relief buoys him. While she’s
away, he will decide on a plan. Maybe he can board up the windows to make it seem like they’ve
left, find a way of explaining it to Marion later.
“I had a thought earlier,” he says. “We could go anywhere tonight. We could break into
any house in the neighborhood. We could even eat right in the middle of town square if we
wanted to. No one is around to stop us.”
Though she’s stunned by his spontaneity, Marion tries to match it, playfully burning to
outdo him with her own suggestions.
“Maybe we could sit on the riverbank, beneath the stars,” she says. “Or climb the bell
tower of the church.”
An energy begins effervescing between them. Lucas rises from his chair and retrieves the
last bottle of wine from the cupboard. Marion puts their bowls in the sink and douses the fire.
The room is nearly dark, scantily lit by a pale blue dusk. Maybe they are smiling. Maybe they are
five years younger and hurtling towards love instead of stumbling past it. They walk to the door
in harmony, but as Lucas reaches for the handle, they hear a deep, wailing howl.
The energy wanes. The room grows still. “Tomorrow night,” Lucas says, and Marion
nods. Somehow, she finds her way to the couch, flicking on the lamp and escaping into her book.

Reclamation / Page 12
He drifts upstairs and begins pacing around the bedroom. Every so often he looks out at the
wolves and questions what they are searching for.
Later, they prepare for bed, brushing their teeth side by side, taking turns washing their
faces. They undress on opposite sides of the room and both wonder why they aren’t looking at
each other. Their bare bodies. Lucas spent the war thinking about the mark Marion’s bra makes
between her shoulder blades. Marion spent the war thinking about the way Lucas’s jaw clenches
as he undoes his shirt cuffs.
They lie in bed, knowing this is supposed to be what they waited for the entire war: a
hand on a chest, an arm beneath a neck, the space between their bodies no more than the length
of a grenade pin. But they barely recognize the figure lying next to them; it’s as if they are two
people passing on the street who once met in a dream.
Together, they fall asleep and together they dream of the house filling with water. It pools
beneath the door. It pours between the ribs of their shutters. Cutlery ascends from the drawers;
forks follow knives follow spoons. Throw pillows writhe against the walls. Their bed rises from
the floor, its four posts pinned to the ceiling, forever caging their bodies in that house.
Together, they drown.
***
The platform is clotted with people awaiting the day’s first train—mostly briefcasetouting commuters or couples looking forward to a short trip. It is early enough that the tracks
are still glossed with dew. Marion and Lucas wait side by side, shivering, their breath forming
helixes in the air. Neither can help but think of the day, over two years ago now, when Lucas left
for the front. They stood at this same platform, too upset to speak. When the train entered the
station then, it sent a tremor down both of their arms and met, midway, in their clasped hands.

Reclamation / Page 13
As the steel rails begin to judder now, the two of them embrace. It is quick, awkward,
almost unfamiliar. The train arrives, dragging a kite string of smoke above it. The doors slide
open. People file out. People file in. The world staggers on. This time, it is Marion who walks to
the door, steps up the ramp, and leaves with a gentle nod and a half smile.
Once she finds her seat, the train begins tracing through unfettered farmland and
everything is in bloom. Tulip stems push through the soil. Birds form perfect chevron patterns in
the sky. She smiles at the mustachioed ticket inspector. She eavesdrops, shamelessly, on the
conversations brimming and overlapping around her. The dusk-toned silhouette of Lyon grows
in the distance and Marion breathes freer, knowing Génissiat is far behind.
Lucas watches the train until it is no longer in sight, until he is the only person left at the
platform, and turns for home. Back through the hills, down the ravine, a return to the familiar. He
notices paw prints in the dirt half a kilometer outside Génissiat, each one roughly the size of his
palm, and he follows the tracks to their end, just in front of Bernard’s house. There are deep,
frenzied gashes at the base of Bernard’s door. Lucas bends, runs his fingers across the grooves,
and puts his ear flush against the door, as if checking the house for a heartbeat. Nothing. It takes
him two tries to kick the door in. He smells the body before he sees it.
It happens at the same moment, as if, from kilometers away, an invisible cord is tied
between them. She is standing in line at the grocery. He is standing in Bernard’s living room.
She is holding a basket of peaches. He is holding his breath. She is feeling wonderfully
anonymous. He is realizing there was no need for Bernard to leave a note. She is setting down
the basket, heading back outside, into the lively street. He is shutting Bernard’s door, walking
into the solitary spring morning, back towards home. She is eager to lose herself in this new city.
He is hoping to be packed for when his wife returns.

Reclamation / Page 14
Both begin to remember the person they are about to become.


