In a small town in the Colorado Rockies, I worked one summer on a construction crew—
four man or sometimes five, and I was generally the low man. The youngest and, frankly, the
least skilled, I did a lot of grunt work—picking up and unloading materials, shovel work,
cleanup, hauling trash. They all had pickup trucks except me, but there was a company flatbed I
could use most of the time, and I took it home at night. Not much bigger than the pickups but the
bed was wider and rested above the wheel-wells. When we weren’t bringing in lumber or other
materials, we’d load it up with the construction debris—wood scraps, dried cement chunks,
busted forms and 2-bys, bad dirt and so on. Invariably it was me who made the dump run.
It was a county dump, an abandoned quarry, long ago drained out and close to filled in by
now with rubbish. Well out of town and half a mile off the highway, it was at the end of a dirt
road that went nowhere else. I took a full load at the end of the day. Dusk was approaching, and I
was feeling anxious and looking forward to the weekend.
The quarry walls only dropped off ten or twelve feet anymore with the trash growing
slowly upward. You could back right up to that edge if you were careful. A slight incline made it
tricky, but if you worked the clutch just right and knew what you were doing, you could hang
that truck bed just over the cliff edge and basically shove most of the pile straight off. The back
half was easy enough to unload this way, but the front half—piled up against the cab—was

pretty much a pain; one piece at a time flung behind me or shovelfuls of chunks and pieces that
mostly fell off the shovel. But I had a system. I’d set a six-by-four piece of weathered
plywood—exactly the width of the truck bed—against the cab before piling everything on. And
after I cleared off the back half, I’d pull the whole pile of junk on the plywood to the back of the
bed where I could just shove it straight off.
So I got the back half unloaded and I took the big pieces off the plywood to make it light
enough to slide. Then I tugged on it, but it barely budged. So I cleared a little more and tried
again, and it moved a little more. Of course I was aware that the momentum of tugging on this
thing would send me over the cliff if I pulled too hard or lost my grip. So squatting down, I kept
one foot pretty much behind me to leverage against going in that direction. And I kept testing the
weight of the pile, just rocking my weight against it and gauging the resistance. Finally it was
sliding more easily, a few inches at a time, until I got it pretty close to the edge. With my feet
firmly planted and carefully taking in the end of the bed and the drop-off beyond, I knew what I was
doing. So I took a firm grip on the lip of that sheeting and gave it one more good tug. With no detectible

resistance, that board slid free from under the pile like it was on ball bearings launching me
backwards off the end of that truck like a high-diver at the Olympics.
Two seconds, maybe three. There was no resistance in the empty air I floated through.
Facing upwards, all I saw was the dome of blue sky, no perception of where I was going to land,
no sensations to react to, nothing to be done. I was completely at the mercy of this law we call
gravity and I completely submitted. My entire life did not play back before me. There was no
time, and no reason.
I landed flat on a piece of scrap drywall that was apparently the exact size and shape of
my body. It rested atop the accidental arrangement of loose debris that actually gave a little when

I hit, as if designed to cushion my landing. Unhurt and strangely relaxed, I lay there, taking it in.
It took me longer to realize what had happened—to register my extraordinary luck—than the
time it took to actually fall.
Staring up at that luminous pale blue sky, a single object appeared in the periphery of my
vision. The jagged spike of a split two-by-four intruded into that blueness, pointing upwards,
extending vertically exactly between my out flung right arm and my ribcage. And that’s when
my entire future life appeared before me, a future I saw in glaring relief to it immense nonexistence, contained in an instant, six inches to my right.
I cannot tell you how perfectly blue was that pale blue sky.


