The thing about a breakup is that the word alone bears a resemblance of perfection in that in truly
leaves a person broken. It’s in this state that someone can find justification for the preposterous. Even in
the worst of relationships, where it should be all sunshine and rainbows that it ended with how bad you
were treated, the dumpee will still feel like their world has been shattered. It’s an inevitable reaction to
losing the familiar, whether it was good or bad doesn’t matter. The point of it all is that you lost that
special someone, even if they weren’t that special to begin with. Funny how that works, isn’t it?
Hindsight hasn’t reached its peak yet, so you’re left thinking that the end of a relationship is, in fact, the
end of the world. This blissful state of agony, a beautiful-bullet wound, was the wondrous world of my
life.
I’ve spent the last week in varied forms of the fetal position, eating piles of junk food, while
watching the quintessential collection of romance movies. My preference was the combined one-pound
bag of peanut-butter M&M’s and The Notebook. I didn’t care how cliché it may be to watch a Nicholas
Sparks movie, and shoveling handfuls of chocolate in my mouth, after a breakup. It was filling the void,
and, at this time in my life, I didn’t care what I looked like. Yes, I’d become a hermit with brightlycolored-candy wrappers lining the floor, and cinematic-love affairs was my coping mechanism.
This lasted six days before Claire was on my porch beating down my front door. Although, it
took her screaming like a lunatic before I was willing to let her in. I wanted to ignore her, pretend I
wasn’t there, but that was hard to do with my car in the driveway, and the fact that she could see me
through the glass of the door. Plus, with as loud as she was, I’m sure she’d eventually piss off my
neighbors, which would just be another headache altogether.
After finally opening the door, and her barging in, she took in the view of what I’d become.
Briefly turning up her nose at the trash before taking on downturned cheeks and sympathetic eyes, she
practically shoved me into the shower. While I washed, she cleaned the mess that had been left in my
wake. I fought her on it with everything I had, but, in my current state, I was no match for the fierceness
of her determination.
I couldn’t truly be mad at her though, even if the movie WAS just getting to the good part. So
here I was, seven days after being dumped by ‘he who shall not be named’, and feeling the sun on my
skin for the first time since it all happened. The sun was angling downwards, but still fairly high since it
was only mid-afternoon. It was warm, but not as muggy as it normally was this time of year. It kept us
from being drenched in sweat, which wouldn’t have helped the mood that Claire was trying to alter. I
still wasn’t happy, but she was putting up everything she could as a potential distraction, which must
have been hard since my mind kept wandering.
“Kiera!”
“What?” I said jumping.
“I asked you a question.”
“Um, I wasn’t listening.”
“Yeah,” said Claire, “I kind of realized that. No more sulking for that douchebag. We’re here to
enjoy the sunshine and people watch.”
“I’m trying,” I said, “but it’s not that easy.”
“It’ll come in time,” she said with an understanding look. “I wanted to know if that spot over
there would work,” she said pointing to a patch of grass that pushed into a cluster of trees just off the
path.
Getting me out of the house, Claire chose to bring me to Shawnee Mission Park because she
knew how much time I spent here. It was my frequented place for relaxation with a good book. Losing

myself in a story, surrounded by nature, was a favorite past time of mine. I could be found here three, or
even four, times a week, but this past week had been against the norm; obviously. “Looks good enough
to me,” I said.
The spot was slightly elevated allowing for a breath-taking view of the expansive-grass field
below. Completely encased in thick woods, the void was invisible to the outside world. The path down
from the parking lot wound among the trees to the clearing Claire brought me to. While she unfolded a
blanket for us to sit on, I peered into the valley, watching a few people jogging along the walkway. On
the far side was a couple exercising together who occasionally glanced at each other, bringing them
both to a smile, and it supplied another sudden-emotional knife that caught me off-guard.
The sharpened blade sticking from my side was an immediate deluge into exactly what this little
trip was supposed to be avoiding. My boyfriend, ex- boyfriend…I needed to remember ex-boyfriend, and
I would do cardio together on the weekends. Staying healthy was important to both of us, and there was
a time where we were exactly like that couple jogging together. Why can something so simple send you
tumbling down the rabbit hole of regret?
Alice would’ve had a better chance at figuring out how a raven is like a writing desk than
stopping the unwanted correlations your observations make. The double-edged blade dripped crimson
down my side as it sank me further into that world of hate and regret. On one side, there were so many
happy memories, but right now they were overshadowed by the gut-wrenching pain it caused. I
would’ve given anything to feel his arms wrapped around me right then, and I hated myself for it.
There wasn’t a logical reason that I’d wish this upon myself, but here I was doing exactly that.
He wasn’t worthy to breathe the same air with me, but to fill his lips on mine, and his fingers running
through my hair, was the opiate I yearned for. I could smell him now, the soap he used, as I imagined
myself in his embrace with my head on his shoulder. I would’ve happily stayed in that moment, but
Claire, with the strength of Arthur removing sword from stone, dragged me out of the hole. She brought
me back to reality, even if only momentarily, asking, “Which one do you want?”
“Huh?”
“I’ve got two of them, one ham and the other turkey. Which do you want?” she asked holding
out two sandwiches she’d pulled from her backpack. That’s when it happened again, the wound began
seeping without warning. He always ate ham and cheese sandwiches; it was his favorite.
“I’ll take the ham,” I said grabbing the wrapped sandwich. Even though I preferred turkey,
eating the ham made me feel closer to him. I took a bite and stared at the sandwich realizing how stupid
I was, but I couldn’t help it; I missed him. Even after swallowing, I still gazed at the ham encased in
sourdough, wondering what he was doing.
Was he feeling as miserable as I was? Did he miss me? He could be texting me right now, but
Claire made me leave my cellphone in the car. How would I know if he was trying to get ahold of me
right now? Did he want to get back together? The knife twisted in my ribs slicing into my kidney. It was
more likely that he was having the time of his life…with her. They were probably fucking right now;
planning their marriage between thrusts. I could see him, right now, burying himself inside her as they
laughed at my misery. I set the sandwich aside in disgust, and grabbed one of the granola bars instead.
“Where’s Danny?” I asked biting into my snack, saying anything to distract myself from their
naked bodies writhing together.
“He’s probably working on the car. It’s been making an odd noise lately. He understood we
needed some girl time though.”
“Must be nice,” I said.
“What?”
“Being married to a man that isn’t a complete and total dickwad.”
“I just lucked out Keira, and you will too. You just need to get past this rut, and you’ll find your
Prince Charming. I guarantee it even if I have to mold the man out of clay myself.”

I couldn’t help but chuckle at the thought.
“Well will you look at that,” she said.
“What?”
“We’ve chipped the first piece off of that my-life-is-over-and-I’ll-never-be-happy-again funk off
of you. Now we just need a hunky fireman to hose the rest of it off of you.”
Another smile as I laughed again. “I appreciate the company, and the distraction, but I do keep
going back to analyzing what happened. I mean, why did he start banging that stupid slut? Was I not
good enough? What is wrong with me that someone would just toss me aside like that? Maybe I’m
ugly.”
“You aren’t the least bit ugly, and nothing,” Claire said turning me to face her, “absolutely
nothing is wrong with you. The ‘dickwad’, as he will now be known, is the problem. It has nothing to do
with you. He was undeserving of the incredible woman you are, and this was the universe removing him
from the equation. Now you can find someone that can appreciate the person you are.”
“Claire, if I didn’t know better, I’d think you were trying to be that next person to get into my
panties.”
“Well they are nice panties,” she laughed. “But, alas, I’m a fan of the cock.” My mouth dropped
open in shock. “Yeah,” she said pointing at my mouth, “that’s the face I usually make when I get to play
with one.”
“Oh my God Claire,” I said smacking her arm as we both laughed hysterically. “What would your
husband think?”
“Who cares? I just drag him to the bedroom so mommy can have her fun.” We continued
laughing throughout the picnic, and, as time went on, I realized I was thinking less and less of him. There
was still the occasional flash of something that reminded me of what we had, and what was lost, but it
was getting easier. No matter how much I had been forcing myself to be miserable, which never makes
sense why we all do this to ourselves, her company was doing wonders. It took her dragging me by my
ankles out the front door, my fingernails digging grooves into the floor as I tried getting back to the
couch, but it was having the desired effect. I was feeling better; more me.
The relationships, or bonds, we make with the people around us is a remarkable entity in itself.
This woman beside me has been at me with everything she’s got to wipe away the despondency, and
show me that there are always chances for another turn at bat; tabula rasa. Focusing all your energy on
something painful makes you forget all the rest of life’s offerings.
Then, something as simple as a friend taking you to the park can flip the dime on its head, and
show you what you’ve been missing. It’s reminded me how thankful I am to all the people in my life that
make a difference in it. I have people around me that will step to the brink in order to manage the
fallout of whatever happens to me. Even though we may need a reminder from time to time, we should
all realize that we’re luckier than we know.


