“Sir, I’m happy to get you another drink, but you are going to have to please try to be
quieter for our other passengers.” The flight attendant with the blond hair bun and a nametag that
read “Molly” gestured at Adalina’s children in the row ahead.
“Yeah, yeah,” the redneck said, “just bring the drink, darlin’.”
The flight attendant Molly did a double take, frowned and started off down the aisle to
the cabin kitchen, evidently more or less used to dealing with rude passengers. Adalina, even as a
New Yorker, could not believe her ears. The redneck’s redneck friend thought this, like
everything else since take­off, hilarious, and his scrunched up face gave the impression that he
really was trying to contain his laughter.
Adalina was not in the mood for loud rednecks. She was not in the mood for Italy. She
was not in the mood to be travelling alone with kids, without her ex­husband, keeping track of
passports and dealing with rental cars. She was not in the mood to drink, to see her sick
grandmother Nonni, who, if she was honest with herself, would ideally die while Adalina was
there, since she was not sure she could afford another trip back for a funeral. She wanted sleep, if
it would come. She stared at the blank screen on the back of the seat in front of her. She thought
she could feel a cold coming.
They were barely two hours in.
Molly the flight attendant with the blonde bun brought the men another half dozen
miniature bottles of Jack Daniels. Adalina could watch them out of her periphery if she tilted her
heads towards her kids, who sat together from her across the aisle, while she sat in the edge of a
middle row. Indeed, it seemed unlikely she would be getting any sleep on this flight; she had a
bad feeling about these rowdy adults sitting behind her obviously more mature children. Molly
took her time placing ice in fresh cups for the men, and each time she would turn back to her
cart, the redneck in the aisle would make a mock go at squeezing the air around her bottom.
Then, when she looked back around, he’d withdraw his hand in a half­ass attempt not to get
caught. Molly pretended not to notice as she handed out the miniatures. Standing up straight, she
said sweetly, “Remember gentlemen, please keep your voices down.”
“Bitch,” the aisle redneck said, not quite under his breath, but this too Molly, already
scooting her cart up the aisle, seemed not to hear. Adalina whipped her head around and shot
them a dirty, disbelieving look. Seeing this, the men pointed at her and burst out in another round
of their raspy, voiceless smoker’s laugh, which sometimes ended in a violent cough. Adalina’s
cheeks flushed red; she turned back to her blank screen and dug her nails into the back of her
hand. She was not in the mood to get into a confrontation, especially in front of her kids. She
wished the rednecks would just watch a movie and shut up. Staring forward, she could hear one
hock up a loogie and spit, though she did not want to know where.
Mars and Mary were behaving well; in truth, plugged into a computer or an electronic
screen was likely how they’d be spending their time anyway, were they at home and not 30,000
feet in the air. Mars was the older child at fourteen. His father had always been fascinated with
the planet and with the Roman god of war. During his birth Mars had been nearly strangled by
the umbilical cord. When it was all over, Adalina had been so happy he was alive and well, she
did not care, after her months of protesting the name, what they called him in the end. Of course,
through the years anytime Adalina had to reveal to other moms and teachers the name, which
sounded like one a popstar would give her newborn, she got the​
are you kidding?​
look. So two

Flight of the Rednecks

3

years later, when her daughter was born, dropping an “s” and adding a “y” seemed like a simple
way to compensate.
She flipped through a SkyMall absentmindedly, wondering how her kids would hold up if
they did have to attend a funeral after all. They had known Nonni in their youths from sporadic
trips to her villa outside Naples throughout their childhood. She doubted whether they felt very
close, if they ever did. Perhaps she didn’t think it possible because Adalina herself no longer felt
close to Nonni. It had been since she was a teenager that she enjoyed playing or working in her
farm, helping her in the kitchen or attending the never­ending trips to Mass. That all seemed part
of a past life, and she had never expected Nonni to embrace her new one, her atheism, to inquire
about her corporate job or the constant Thai take­out filling up the kitchen trash can.
But Mars and Mary loved getting out of the city and spending a week at Nonni’s, even
without their electronics. They loved hearing about how kids entertained themselves in Nonni’s
youth, how a simple stick in the grass became a whole array of toys and props befitting
imaginative storylines that they would act out. Mars and Mary played hide and seek in the hilly
expanses between the neighboring villas with the neighboring kids, they rolled gnocchi and
accompanied Nonni begrudgingly to Mass. It was possible they felt closer to Nonni than Adalina
ever had, but after so much time, it was hard to tell.
And then, with a flutter of panic, Adalina wondered how much she had actually
impressed on Mars and Mary about Nonni’s current state. She had told them she was ill; were
they expecting their typical getaway? So far their closest encounters with death were in their
video games and movies. Adalina was not in the mood for a funeral.

Flight of the Rednecks

4

Yet, looking at them now, smiling contently at their movies, she decided she would have
to talk to them before they arrived.
An hour passed, by the end of which the sky was streaked in the hot pink and deep
indigos of a cloudy sunset, and the flight attendants were clearing dinner trays and coming
around with coffee and tea. Adalina stared out the window and let her thoughts pass her by.
The aisle redneck stopped Molly in her path, gripping her arm lightly. “Be a darlin’ and
round us up another drink to wash down that bullcrap y’all call supper,” he said.
“I’m sorry, sir,” Molly replied, pulling her arm away, “but I’m afraid I’ve reached the
maximum amount of drinks that I can serve you on this flight.”
“What?” said the aisle redneck. “That’s horseshit,” said the window redneck. Adalina,
annoyed, briefly wondered if there was a semantic difference between “horseshit” and
“bullcrap.”
“Again, sir, I am sorry for the inconvenience. I am happy to bring you a bottle water if
you are thirsty, but the kitchen is now closed­­”
“Aw, fuck off lady,” said the window redneck.
“Excuse me?” said Molly, horrified. Adalina sat up in her seat and turned to the scene,
ready to get involved. Judging by Molly’s expression she had never been trained to deal with a
customer who was being outright hostile.
“You’d let us get drunk as we wanted if we were sat up in fancy first fuckin’ class,” said
the other.
“Ain’t that the sad truth,” the first echoed.

Flight of the Rednecks

5

“Mom?” said Mars. He and Mary had unplugged from their screens and were sitting
forward in their seats, turned, like many on the plane, to see what the yelling was about.
“I­I’m sorry sir, but I’m afraid we can’t allow you to have any more at this point…”
“Just watch the movie sweetie,” Adalina said, raising her eyebrows at them when they
did not immediately turn back around.
Molly seemed stuck still. The aisle redneck leaned close to her in a slow, deep voice,
said, “Lady just do us a favor and go on an’ fetch us one more goddamn round. It ain’t a tough
job.”
Molly walked off, and with that Adalina turned back around. With the whiskey possibly
cut off, the men were no longer laughing. “Piece of shit airline,” he could hear them murmuring.
Adalina had an idea, and she turned the light bulb on above her head, fully appreciating
its symbolism. Molly the flight attendant arrived a moment later.
“Yes,” Adalina said, smiling a little mischievously. “I’ll have two cans of Pringles, two
apple juices, and one,”­­she said, winking stupidly­­ “jack and coke.”
Adalina smiled at Molly, sure that she would see the humor and potential for a little
payback now in reach. At the mention of whiskey Molly frowned and shot a furtive glance to the
rednecks behind her, but jotted down the order on a pad and walked off, saying nothing to
Adalina.
“Miss, excuse me, miss­­our drinks?” said the aisle redneck as she retreated, and when
she did not respond he had to yell “Miss! I’m talking to you!” extremely loud, so she had no
choice to return to him.

Flight of the Rednecks

6

“As I told you before, sir, we are not able to offer you any more alcohol at this time.
However, we are nearly in Rome, where there are bars and duty free stores located in the
airport.” Molly swept briskly off down the aisle, ignoring the men. Adalina began to wonder if
her plan was such a good one after all.
To her surprise, though, Molly did not return with a drink, but a tall, handsome man did,
one who must have been working at another part of the cabin. He smiled and lowered the items
onto her fold­out tray; she took them and handed her children their snacks. The tall attendant’s
name tag read “Roberto.”
“Thank you, Roberto,” she said, as he turned around. Looking over her shoulder, she
watched the aisle redneck open his mouth to get Roberto’s attention, but he seemed to think
better of it. “Where is that shitty ass waitress?” he said to the other.
Now Molly sat up and turned to face the rednecks as much as she possibly could without
her legs being in the aisle. The aisle redneck noticed her looking at them; he nudged the other.
They watched as she took the can of coke in both hands and made a show of popping it open and
pouring it slowly into her glass. Then she procured a Jack Daniels from her right side and
brought it into sight, twisted off its cap, smelled it, wafted its aroma towards her nostrils, and
(resisting the urge to cough back the strong scent of alcohol), smiled sweetly at the rednecks as
she poured it over the ice and the coca cola. She stirred and sipped, then raised a glass up into the
air, but mock­realizing they had nothing to toast with, shrugged, smiled again and simply sipped
more. Then men looked expressionless as they watched, stupefied. She turned back to face front,
half afraid she would be clobbered in the side of the head. There, Molly could be seen standing

Flight of the Rednecks

7

by the kitchenette, watching, smiling; then, catching Adalina’s eye, she winked and turned the
corner into the kitchenette.
Adalina thought she could make out the words “kitchen” and “closed” from the
grumbling behind her, but she did not dare turn back around. “Fuck this,” she heard the aisle
redneck say. “I gotta take a piss.” Adalina made to look over at her kids.
The aisle redneck grabbed the back of Mary’s seat and seemed to pull it back hard as
possible in his effort to sit up, letting it go so that it sprung Mary back forward in her seat.
Distracted from her show, Mary pulled out her earphones and turned irritably around. Now the
redneck stretched his arms out wide and stuck his large plaid­claden belly out, which was
emphasized all the more by his huge brass belt buckle that made his gut protrude all the more
(something Adalina could not imagine comfortable on an eight hour flight). This seemed only to
push Mary’s seat forward all the more, so that when he stopped stretching the seat sprung back to
its original stance. Then the redneck did a side stretch, pushing the seat forward again; then the
other side, pulling it back. Having not thought that the men would actually begin to bother her
kids, Mary was determined at first to pay it no mind.
“Just ignore them, the flight’s almost over,” she told Mary when the redneck behind him
finally went to the restroom.
But when he came back, to his friend’s delight, he decided to start poking at the screen on
the back of Mary’s seat, poking with such force that each thrust was a bump in Mary’s back, like
a seatback being kicked at the movie theater. It took only a few moments for Mary to pull out her
headphones again, confused and irritated.

Flight of the Rednecks

8

“Excuse me,” said Adalina to the aisle redneck, leaning over the aisle space, “you need to
cut that out.”
The redneck, perhaps not realizing Adalina would be so direct, “merely kept thrusting his
finger at the screen.” His friend held back giggles like a kid during church service. “I’m sorry,
ma’am. Is my Solitaire bothering you somehow?”
“You can cut that out now, or I can call the flight attendant over,” she insisted.
“Are we doing something wrong? Are we going to be put in plane time­out?” the window
redneck chimed in. They burst out together in another round of hoarse laughter, bunched over in
a fit.
Whiskey pulsed through her insides, firing her up. The redneck’s finger­jabbing had not
relented. Max and Mary were looking at her anxiously.
Adalina stood up wordlessly. Towering as tall as she could over the stocky redneck, she
swatted his finger away from the screen before it could push Mary’s seat forward once more.
Leaning in close to the man as outrage formed on his face, she said in a low whisper, “Stop
harassing my child. Or I will be reporting you to the police. And I’m telling you once.”
“We’re not harassing any children, lady, so you can sit your tight ass back down and let
me play my game,” said the redneck, and he went back to thumping the screen.
Adalina reached over the redneck’s head and pushed his call button. She had had enough.
“You know,” she said shakily. She could feel everyone watching as she stood, now
nearly screaming, tears welling in her eyes, in the middle of the aisle. “We are going to see my
very sick, very ill, dying grandmother, who could be dead by the time we land­­dead!...Do you
think you could have just a scratch more respect and leave us­­everyone­­in peace for the last,

Flight of the Rednecks

9

what, hour of the flight?” she said, dramatically checking her watch. “Would that really be so
hard for you?”
“Oh now ma’am I’m sure my friend here wasn’t trying to be disrespectful,” said the
window redneck, and he brought a cigarette to his mouth and lit it.
“Mommy,” interrupted Mary. “Did Nonnie die?”
Adalina ignored her, eyes widening. “What do you think you are doing? It’s illegal to
smoke on a plane! Are you ​
trying​
to kill us all?”
“I’m scared, Mommy.”
“Put that out,” yelled a man from the row behind the rednecks. “Oh my god is he
insane?” one woman asked.
“There’s nothing to be scared of, honey,” said Adalina. “We’ll talk in a minute.” Molly
and the tall attendant Roberto were making their way down the aisles.
“Excuse me, I’m afraid you’re both going to have to come with me,” said Roberto,
looking down where they now sat seeming somehow smaller than before.”
“I ain’t doing shit with your faggy ass,” said the aisle redneck.
Molly turned to Adalina, who still stood in the aisle. “We’ve got this miss, you can return
to your seat­­”
WHAM
Suddenly Adelina was no longer standing above her seat, but lying down the aisle some
distance from it. There was a sharp pain in her lip and on the right side of her head. She raised
her head, not sure what had just happened. People were screaming; Mary cried “Mommy” over
the sudden uproar. Looking over, Molly the flight attendant was struggling to stand up, but

Flight of the Rednecks
10
seemed to bear a great weight on her back. Indeed when Adalina struggled to lift herself up, it
was with great effort that she was finally able to begin crawling back up the aisle. People looked
on at her, horrified at what was happening, as she crawled against the upward slope of the
still­diving plane. Hot liquid trickled down her cheek. “Mommy, you’re bleeding,” Mars yelled.
“I know, honey,” she said. Oxygen masks had fallen from the cabin ceiling. Ignoring
protocol she quickly tightened Mary’s and Mars’ masks before climbing into her seat and doing
her own. Where were the flight attendants? Molly was making her way to her seat so that she
could fasten in. Roberto was already out of sight.
Adalina’s chest was in a knot. She couldn’t tell if she was breathing or not. She leaned
across the aisle, holding Mary’s hand, holding Mars’. “It’s fine,” she told them, terrified, “It’s
just some mechanical trouble. It will be better in a little bit.”
“Mommy are we dying?” Mary asked.
“No, sweetie. No. We’re not dying. Everything is going to be ok, OK?” Adalina wiped
Mary’s tear away and tucked her hair behind her ear.
“Why are you crying, Mommy?” asked Mars, his eyes poking behind the yellow plastic
attached to his mouth.
Adalina hung her head and sobbed. She thought of her ex­husband, how she should have
left the kids with him. She thought of their family vacations to the mountains in Montana. She
thought with hatred of Italy and Nonni, that all their lives would end because Nonni’s was
ending too. She thought of 9/11, of the Malaysian Airlines flight. Were they being hijacked?
Would they ever be found? She thought finally, this is what it feels like, to be helplessly crashing
through the sky in a plane, to be dying. She looked up and down the aisles again for anyone

Flight of the Rednecks
11
moving about. If there were a terrorist they could do something about it; it wasn’t too late. But
only Molly was visible down the aisle, strapped into her kitchenette chair, head thrown back and
eyes snapped shut like she had been forced to go on a scary rollercoaster.
Then, somehow, in all the velocity of the careening mass beelining towards Earth,
Adalina kissed Mary’s hand and felt a stillness, a deep calm. What was happening was
happening and she could not do a thing about it, which left her oddly freed. Or perhaps it was a
last defense mechanism, some form of denial.
The rednecks never did rise from his seat, and now Adalina remembered them, and
looked back in her miserable calm. The redneck in the aisle was already looking at her. He was
pressed as far back in his seat as he could go, grabbing tight onto the armrest with white
knuckles. His expression was petrified in place, suddenly innocent and soft. The brown of his
eyes, it seemed, could not turn away from Adalina’s. Meanwhile his friend in the window seat
had his eyes shut tight and turned away from the uncovered window, his hand clutching his
friend’s knee, unthinking and terrified; between his fingers the cigarette, still lit, was beginning
to form a long column of ash. Adalina could not tear her eyes away from the redneck in the aisle,
hidden behind his oxygen mask; she wondered where his mother was.
“Mommy, what is happening,” said Mars. “Are we falling, Mommy.”
“Shhh,” said Adalina. “We’re almost there.”
Adalina closed her eyes. She was not sure she’d be able to open them again. “Mommy,”
she could hear. “Mommy.” It was all over, she thought. It was all over.
But then something changed. The plane began to straighten out. Adalina, if not mistaken,
could feel her legs being pushed up from their undersides. Her intestines seemed to be settling

Flight of the Rednecks
12
back into place. She could breathe a little easier. She dared to open her eyes. As if a joke, the
cabin chimed and the “fasten seatbelts” sign lit up across the ceiling.
Adalina lifted her head and looked at her children, who were craning their heads to get a
better look at the recovering cabin. “Huh,” she half­grunted, half­laughed to herself. Placing her
hand to her chest, her heart was hammering, but looking around, she allowed herself to exhale
more fully.
Good evening ladies and gentlemen, this is your captain speaking. We are very sorry to
have disturbed your flight. Unfortunately, not everything about flying can always be predicted,
and what you just experience was just such an occurrence. As it turns out, coming directly
towards us in our flight trajectory was another commercial flight, and as you might have guessed
we had to maneuver very sharply, very quickly into a dive to avoid collision. While this is a rare
occurrence, it does happen, and this is why it’s important to always follow the safety instructions
outlined in the safety manuals in your back seat pocket, to the best of your abilities. Again, we
deeply apologize for this inconvenience. If anyone needs medical attention, please alert our
flight attendants straight away. We should be landing shortly in…
“LORD have mercy,” said the window redneck. “LORD what did we ever do.”
“My God,” said the aisle one, “I about nearly pissed myself.”
“I think I might did,” said the other.
“Lord,” said the aisle one. Adalina took a deep breath, still reeling and trying to calm
herself. She wiped blood from her temple with her hand.
“I wish they’d give us a drink now,” said the other. “After that,” said the aisle one, and it
was starting, “Lord, I was just thinking the same­­” but the redneck couldn’t even finish his

Flight of the Rednecks
13
sentence, already breaking down into a laughing fit as he was. Within seconds it was full on,
hysterical laughter that had them bent over clutching their stomachs, practically in tears. Mars
and Mary, when she looked at them through blurry vision, were giving Adalina a curious smile.
She realized then, wiping away another tear as Molly hurried past, that she was still alive, her
kids were alive, she was smiling, her stomach was hurting; she couldn’t control herself; she had
begun laughing, too. They were still going to see Nonni, who was sick and dying, and all she
could do was laugh.


