Today, after my first battle, I have decided to keep this journal of my thoughts and experiences during
my service in the King’s army. This isn’t for prosperity, merely my own outlet from the confusion and pain
that I am now experiencing.
I have heard that battle is both terrifying and exhilarating. Perhaps, I have heard it said, the reason that it
is so terrifying is because it is so exhilarating. I only found it terrifying. How anyone could find
exhilaration in the death of so many, friend or foe, is beyond my understanding. The pure carnage of the
whole ordeal is so…vile, so...base, that to even think about it, much less press it to virgin paper, is
enough to turn my resolve to water. And yet, perhaps writing it down may be the only way to come to
terms with my part in it.
We had heard about the approach of the goblin hordes. Rumours had abounded for weeks of their
impending attack. No one knows why the goblins, who usually raid outlying, unprotected villages and
towns in small bands of raiding parties, would join together with orcs and trolls to attack a city the size of
Sitoria Aeraemel. The council suspects some great evil behind the banding. It matters little to the
average elven foot soldier. What matters is the enemy at the doorstep. Our scouts had reported that the
vast goblin army, for that is what they predominately were, would reach the city in five days. Our king
decided that we would meet them at the Tuhor, a clearing about two day’s march from the city. We
would have to reach the clearing before our enemies, but it is widely known that an elven army can travel
almost twice as fast as any other when pressed. Our concern was minimal, even though the goblin army
was more than twice our own. It is also widely known that one elf fighting for his homeland is worth at
least three goblin raiders. So, in effect, it was we who outnumbered them. But, as our captain is fond of
reminding us, the man who underestimates his enemy is usually the first to die.
There were some humans among the companies sent to fight the goblin army. Not many, less than
thirty, but good men all. Men who train with us train as we do, in body, mind and spirit. We, all of us,
human and elf, take the same oath as a soldier: to fight with honour and live the same; to crave peace
but not to the detriment of freedom; to protect those who need protection; to reap justice to those who
sow injustice. Not all who come seeking training are accepted; most, in fact, are turned away, no matter
how much gold they offer.
The ones who had been training with our army over the last few months were all volunteers who would
be paid for their services. They, of course, were told that this was not their war and were free to leave,
that no one would think ill of them. They stayed to a man. One even joked grimly that the battle would be
their final test. So it would be for all of us...

The two great armies swell together, the goblin ranks cut down already by a third from the traps and
archers. I am not in the front ranks, so it takes a few minutes of moving with and amongst my comrades
before a pocket of enemy foot soldiers begin mingling with us. A young goblin, hardly old enough to hold
a sword, clumsily swings at me. An easy parry, but my heart is beating so fast, the blood is pounding in
my ears. This is no practice bout. One mistake and even the most inexperience swordsman can kill. My
opponents face is twisted in rage, but his eyes…his eyes hold fear. His eyes…are my eyes.

We had marched at dawn. I watched as our king and his generals rode to the front of our lines. I had
heard, probably from one of the humans, that kings and generals were often the first to ride out, but the
last to enter into battle, if they entered into it at all. I knew that was not the case here. Our king would be
as bloodied as any of us on the field, and he had the added responsibility of having to know of everything
that went on around him, when to draw in, when to order a flanking movement, when to retreat. Beloved
of the people, he would not ask of any of us what he himself would not do. In that regard, the people’s
loyalty to the king was a product of the king’s loyalty to the people.
The first day of our march was uneventful. No one spoke much. Perhaps it was that, as so many of us
had never been in battle before, conversation had no meaning. None of us wanted to speak openly of
our fears but it was there on our faces. The older men, veterans of countless battles, wore faceless
masks that did not show what they felt. But it is hard to disguise the eyes.

A Soldier’s Journal

The first day's march, and the ensuing night, was uneventful. On the second day, however, it rained
steadily. The weather matched our spirits. No man marched happily into war, knowing that he may never
see his family again, that even if he survives many of his comrades will not. No sane man, anyway.
We reached our destination late that evening. Through the rain, we had marched to a smaller clearing
south of the Tuhor. While some men stayed to make camp, the rest of us marched ahead to the clearing,
the site we had chosen to stop our enemies, and busied ourselves with the preparations for the next
day’s battle. Steady reports from our scouts indicated that the enemy would reach us by the following
afternoon. Apparently, the goblin armies were traveling slower than expected, but they were not trying to
hide their approach. Indeed, given their size, that would have been nearly impossible.
Worse than the marching was the waiting. At least in marching, we were busy. With waiting, there were
only the thoughts of the coming day to occupy our minds. It was hard, looking around ourselves, knowing
that, even should we survive the coming battle, many of our comrades, our friends, our brothers, would
not. I found myself attempting to strike deals with the gods for the safety of those most dear to me. If this
one or that one is to be killed, take me rather than them. As if my meager life could be traded for so
many that did not deserve death.
Foolish, in retrospect. It is not the gods who choose war; it is man. It is each man who chooses to fight,
and thus it is each man’s destiny that is fulfilled. The gods have no destiny, and therefore watch ours as
a man watches ants busy themselves about a sand hill.

Another clumsy swing and this time I disarm him. The fear in his eyes spreads to his face, and in the
brief moment from the time his sword leaves his hand to the time that my sword enters his body, the look
becomes one of pleading, and. as my first kill falls to his knees, his eyes bore into mine not with a look of
sorrow or anger, nor fear nor loathing...
but of betrayal.

That evening, once again two companies were chosen to split watch. Mine was one of them. I was in the
group who were to take first watch, giving over the responsibility just after moonrise in the cloudy night
sky. We positioned ourselves at our stations, blending as we were taught with our surroundings. Each of
us carefully marked the man to our left’s position. The man to my left was a darker shadow against the
silhouette of a tree. My own silhouette was part of that of a rocky outcropping. The man to my right would
have marked me as such. Should I be killed by a scout or a spy’s blade, any change in that silhouette
would alert him to danger.
The night wore and finally the moon made its silent appearance in the night sky, an indistinguishable
patch of dim light fighting to make itself seen through the clouds blocking its full glory. My replacement
joined me on the rock plateau on which I stood, and after a moment, I retreated silently. There was no
sense of relief in the ending of my duty that evening. Most times, guard duty is done in the relative safety
our home city. This was my first time doing so away from the protection of the walls surrounding Sitoria
Aeraemel, but even as I padded silently away from the man taking my place, and without the constant
vigilance of guard duty to turn my thoughts from the inevitableness of the events in the coming day, I
found myself dwelling once again on all that might happen.

In the fraction of a moment that it takes for the life to drain from the young goblin's eyes, as his blood
drains from his body, an eternity slips past. My mind balks at the contemplation of my actions. I can't but
keep staring at the sword in my hand, wet and sticky.
I have extinguished a life.
I have taken a soul.
2

A Soldier’s Journal

I was spared further worry. From my left, as I headed back into the camp, came the familiar wolf-gait
stride of one of the humans, a ranger named Kel. He saw me, of course, as I was the man he had
marked on his left during our shared guard duty. I had not known that he, too, had been chosen, for
sentry duty.
He nodded. Like most humans, he felt the need to acknowledge the presence of another. I returned the
gesture, unlike most elves, who would consider it beneath them to show a human that he cared that his
presence was acknowledged. This must have made an impression upon him, because he altered his
path slightly to intersect my own, and fell into stride next to me.
Though late and I being tired, his presence, strange as it was, comforted me, somehow. We walked in
silence for a few moments.
"You're good," the statement was one expected from a superior, not another recent trainee. In fact, he
was stealthy enough for a human, but as a sentry, none could get past him in our training. “A bit more
practice, and you'll be one of the best. Nothing to worry about now with this goblin rabble, but against a
higher beast like a human or a well-trained orc..."
He spat on the ground, but left the rest unsaid. I myself was struck silent. This was more words than I
had ever heard him utter, and his first to me. I might have argued the fact with him, had I already not
acknowledged to myself that, as a sentry, he was best amongst those who had been training.
In his hands, he was turning over and over some small item on a chain of silver. We continued walking in
silence, me searching for something to say, and him, seemingly contemplating something else entirely.

An angered shriek brings time back to its full movement not too late for me to dodge another sword
strike, this one with more skill and confidence than that of the goblin boy. I turn to face my next foe,
another goblin, whose face was twisted in the same rage as his comrade's had been. His eyes, though,
hold no fear. Only more anger, more rage, than that of his countenance. More than rage, his eyes hold
hatred. He growls a single word before he launches a fury of blows that nearly takes the sword from my
hand. I back away. This almost proves fatal, as I falter over the dead goblin's outstretched sword, as the
more deadly one's next blow rains down toward my head.
Without looking up, the ranger commented, “you don't seem like most other elves I've met.”
This struck me, coming from a human. I stopped.
“How many elves have you met?” It seemed the obvious retort.
He grinned, “See, right there. Any other elf would have gone off his cart at the mere thought of being
different. You took that in stride.”
At first I did not understand the notion of the cart, why I would be off of it, and why I would be on one in
the first place....and I, not being very talkative in the most social of circumstances, was again left
speechless.
“See, there again, “he continued. “Any elf I've known would have turned crimson by now, sputtering
threats about teaching me manners and all that. You are different.”
I was not sure where this was going, so I could only frown at him. He seemed quite mad. We continued
walking in silence, I angling towards my part of the camp, consciously quickening my pace, with the hope
that he would break off towards his. He kept up.
3

A Soldier’s Journal

Finally, I spoke. “It's very late, and I'm tired. Tomorrow...later today...there will be...much to do.” I was
going to say “a battle”, but I balked at the words.
“Yes”, he nodded. “Much to do. That whole fighting to the death thing. Listen, we're likely to be deployed
in the same area, and once the fighting starts, small companies like ours are really going to be one
mixed up into one big mass of killing and dying. We'll end up near each other; I'll make sure of that. I
need you to do something for me.”
Was he truly as mad as he seemed? Do something for him? In the middle of a battle, when our thoughts
are going to be occupied with dispatching the enemy and trying not to die? This was absurd! Why was
he bothering me when I should be trying to get the last mortal sleep I may have?
A bluff, in retrospect, and one not even spoken. I would not sleep this night, not with all the thoughts that
would haunt me about the coming day. Still, I could not see what I could do for this human in the thick of
the battle.
“I need you...to keep me alive. And I'll do the same for you.” He stopped and looked at me in the eyes.
“You elves are great fighters. You aren't as strong as most human warriors the same size, but you use
your weapons to their maximum potential. Light swords, not the massive blades that humans and
dwarves use, and like it's a part of your arm! And speed....what speed! I've never seen any being draw a
bow or swing a blade faster than an elf. But when you fight in armies such as this, you fight as
automatons....together, but not together. You need to have someone to watch your back, and you need
to be watching out for the backside of someone else. That'll keep you alive in a fight! You need to trust
those you with whom you fight. Without that...you may live through a battle or two, but in the long run,
you're dead.”
Death. I am not afraid to die. A man only has to have lost someone dear to them to know that, were it up
to him, the dear one would be alive and, because death needs to take someone, he would be dead.
Death, for those who know him, is not feared for oneself.
“What are you talking about, human?” It's not that I did not understand, but that I did not want to
contemplate further on such things. I wanted my peace, my solitude, my thoughts, before the daylight
took everything that I could hope to control.
“I'm speaking plainly enough”, he stood somberly. “I watch your back, you watch mine. We both survive
to fight another day. If one of us dies, it won't be for lack of trying. And I am human, but my name is Kel.”
My earlier thought returned: This was absurd.
“Why don't you ask one of your own kind? Surely, one of them would be a better choice.”
“I could trust most of them to get us both killed. I've seen you in practice. You're good. You're studious.
You don't seek to swing your sword, you seek to master it.”
“Surely, there are other men, elves and human, much better than me, no matter my zeal.”
“There are. None of them I trust.”
“Why trust me?”
“Because, as I said...you're different. I thought that we covered that already. If you give your word, you'll
keep it, whether to another elf, or a human, likely even to an orc, under pain of death.” Again, he spat at
the mention of the word orc. “Look, I am just asking that we try to keep each other alive until the next
sundown. Motives aside, surely you can see the logic in that request? ”
“What are your motives?” I stopped suddenly and asked. It was clear that there was something that I
was not grasping, and equally clear that this human, this Kel, was the only one who could tell me.
4

A Soldier’s Journal

“I can tell that you are not one to enter into an agreement lightly. Look, I can't give you the whole story,
not now. I just need to stay alive, to live through this battle so that I can fight another one. You keep me
alive to the morrow, and I will tell you what you want to know.”
“Why are you here?” My head was spinning. Why me? I could not think, but again, I could not help but
think. Deep down, I...I realized that I was afraid. Not of my death, no. So many back home depended on
us winning this battle. So many friends, family, kinsmen....many would die in this battle. Those surviving
will go back to face widows, orphans, flowery speeches and somber burials. But our people would be
saved. This man didn't care about any of that; he only cared about the next battle. The next fight...
I was suddenly angry. My voice raised, I continued, “You only care for the battle? Living through this one
to fight the next one? These are my kin, my friends, my lands for which we fight. My concern cannot be
to keep you alive so you can live to fight another...day?”
He glared at me, grinding my tirade to a puzzled question before it had barely begun. Through gritted
teeth, he sucked in a deep breath, and then closed his eyes, and breathed out a single, long breath, and
paused before sucking in another.
“It's late, and clearly, you are not the one I thought you would be. Have no fear, elf“, he hissed this last
word, and paused before continuing, “I will fight for your kin, your friends, your land as hard as you will. I
hope that I will see you on the other side of the battle.”
He turned and strode off, not wolf-gaited, but with long angry strides. He collided briefly with another elf,
but simply ignored the glare he received as off he stormed.
I found my confusion turning back to something akin to anger. It was not at his reaction and abrupt end
of the conversation. In fact, I was glad to be rid of him. I believe that I was actually upset at the
implication that I was not the one he thought me to be, and this, I did not understand. Further, I did not
understand why I cared what a human...a mad human, at that...thought of me.
As I stared after him, my eye was drawn to a metal thing on the ground. Stooping, I picked it up. It was
the object of the mad human's attention when he first engaged me in conversation. I held up a long silver
chain, and at its end, a hinged pendant of sorts. The detail was very fine. Not elfish made, though.
Possibly dwarf.
Too late to go after him, I tucked the item into the breast pocket of my tunic and turned toward my corner
of the camp. I hoped that it was not part of some battle charm or good fortune ward. Humans are
notoriously credulous of every omen, every portent, every auspice that their imagination tells them bodes
well or doom. As he had wished upon me, I hoped that I could give it back to him on the other side of the
battle.

The blow does not land, but a loud clang of steel-on-steel rings right next to my ear. It would have been
too late, but I roll away to safety, and look up to see the human, Kel, forcing the goblin's sword away
from where my head had been and back to a fully standing position. He is saying something to me about
not dying, and that what I have is precious to him.
The goblin is surprised to have another foe, before properly dispatching the last, but still has the
presence of mind to leap backwards, to avoid a sudden slash of Kel's blade towards his exposed midriff.
The fall and the ringing in my ear disorients me for a few moments, but I can see yet another enemy, an
orc, moving in behind Kel, occupied with the goblin, to land an unsuspecting blow. I try to move towards
him, but I can't find my footing and I fall, swinging. My blade bites into flesh and as I crash down again to
the bloodied and muddied earth, a yelping figure falls face-first in front of me. I cannot turn fast enough
as I start to roll around to see a wide blade fall towards my head, as if slowed to a fraction of its speed. I
don't understand, as it is moving so very slowly, why I cannot dodge it. A sudden, dull pain, and
then...darkness.
5

A Soldier’s Journal

I put from my mind my interaction with the human, and lay down on my sleeping roll to at least attempt to
rest before the day's coming turmoil. Despite my misgivings of sleep, the days march and battle
preparations overtook me. I nodded into a restless slumber and several times awoke to the dark around
me. Each time, I listened for sounds of battle or stirrings of my comrades, but there was nothing, and
after a few moments I let my eyes close again, slipping back into the restlessness. Finally, a strong hand
roughly shook my shoulder and the familiar tones of one of my kinsmen advised me that scouts put the
army only leagues away. Before I started stirring from my bed roll, he had moved on to the next
slumbering figure, rousing them in the same way.
The next short while was consumed with quickly packing away our bedding and moving our companies
into formation. I did not spot Kel, and so I left his keepsake tucked into my tunic, again hoping that it was
not some kind of charm he would miss in the battle to come, but at the same time, glad to avoid at least
that confrontation again.
As we entered formation, the King rode out in front. Although he addressed us briefly, we were too far
back to properly hear his words of encouragement, but we threw up our arms in defiant cheer along with
everyone else when we saw him do it, before pulling his mount around and facing the open field in the
direction from which the goblin army would pour from the woods on the far side.
This time, the waiting was a palpable demon on our shoulders. Seconds crept into minutes, and then the
minutes crawled towards an hour. Some of the humans broke rank and sat on their haunches, or put a
knee to the ground, to the frowns of their superiors. Battles are never told this way, I thought. It is always
the regaling speech and then turning to fight!
Then, we heard it...a long, low rumble, at first, exactly as thunder, but then, too long to be thunder. As it
got louder, I realized that it was not thunder, but the steady beat of war drums. Others had come to this
realization, as well, and commanders began ushering their charges into proper formation. Eyes towards
the tree line, we waited, each passing moment giving rise to louder and louder pounding, until the
beating of our hearts and the beating of the drums were indistinguishable.
Suddenly, the beating stopped, and for a moment, I thought that my heart had, as well. The silence
became deafening for a few moments more, and then the beat of the drums was replaced by the
screech of ten thousand goblins, orcs and trolls that poured from between the trees.
There is no more sound. The dull pain remains as I become aware again of darkness, and then again of
the rain. I am slow to realize that the darkness is because my eyes are shut. So heavy, it takes effort to
force them open, and then the dull pain becomes a piercing agony of sun light. Fighting back the searing
waves of pain, and the nausea that follows, I force myself to look about, as I realize the vulnerability of
my position. But I am alone. The tide of battle has moved off, or maybe subsided, and the only things
around me are the dead bodies of the enemies. The one I killed is covered in a mix of dripping blood and
wet dirt, his face pushed into the soft mud, eyes still staring. The second goblin, the one who uttered that
word, lies disemboweled, the anger now frozen on his face, eyes dull but defiant. The orc, whose wide
sword is next to me, is practically missing a foot and lies on his back, a dagger sticking neatly from his
chest. His hands grasp at the hilt, but there is no strength in his dead arms to pull it from his heart.
Farther away, I can see the bodies of others, goblins, orcs and men, both human and elf. None are
moving.
The death and carnage I witness this day haunts me. Our forces fought with precision and bravery, but
the enemy fought with a savagery that has no regard for life, ours or theirs. I saw goblin and orc armed
with little more than sharpened sticks and the blades of broken daggers, whose hilts were naught but
ragged cloth wrapping one end, charge into thrusting swords and spears. When an enemy did gained
the advantage and takes down one of our soldier, he continued slashing and beating the fallen man
beyond the ebb of life, sometimes rending limb from the already-dead in his ferocity, heedless of the tide
of battle around them. Countless enemy were thus killed unawares, while assailing dead men whose
final acts are to distract the relentless and merciless to their demise.
6

A Soldier’s Journal

Each breath I take burns my chest as though it was on fire, and I realize that some of my ribs are broken.
Cradling my chest against the pain, I feel the slight bulge of the pendant beneath my tunic. With my other
hand, I pull out the long silver chain. The sun, low on the horizon, peaking beneath the thinning rain
clouds, glints off the pendant as it twisted back and forth. It was precious to him, he had said. He knew
that I had it, but he did not retrieve it from my unconscious form after our combat. In the distance, I now
see men moving among the dead, looking for survivors of the battle. I tuck the chain back into my tunic
and, with no small amount of pain, retrieve my sword from the ground next to the orc's wide blade. I
wince as I kneel beside his body and, with effort, pull the dagger from his chest. A small rivulet of blood
leaks from the wound and is slowly diluted by the rain. With the dagger tucked into my belt, I hobble
towards the men, leaning on my sword as an old man leans on his cane.
The word that goblin uttered, I learn later, means “brother” in the enemy's language. His brother, then,
was the first goblin that I had killed. He attacked with the ferocity I saw at the outset of the battle and
doubtless I would have fallen to the same fate as the hapless men I witnessed rent asunder.
Kel, it seems, kept his word despite, or perhaps to spite, me not giving mine. He kept the enemy's blade
from my neck, but in doing so left himself open to attack from another. That I did not die from the first
swing was fool's luck, as the orc caught me with the flat of his blade instead of the keen. Senseless, I did
not see what happened next. Kel must have killed the older brother and severed the foot of the orc,
incapacitating him before embedding a dagger into his heart.
I did not give my oath to him, but he did save my life. Since coming to my aid, I have not seen him. He
did not return with the remnants of our company, and I did not see him amongst the dead in the area
when I recovered my senses. The battle as a whole encompassed a significant area, so he may have
been lost elsewhere, but somehow, I don't believe this is true.
When he saved my life, I heard him say that what I had was precious to him. The hinged pendant in my
tunic must be it. My resolve is now to find him and return it to him, and offer to him my sword and my
protection, if he will have it. My debt will be paid.

7


