In a land where anything was possible, a young woman stood absently in her yard thinking that
that just wasn’t so. She’d heard about the incredible new happenings on the national news that
morning but just could not believe that it was true.
Magic? She thought. There’s no way that could be anything but gimmicks and trickery.
Gimmicks and trickery indeed. However, these “gimmicks” were fueled by power that was
just unimaginable for Eliza. And the “trickery” bled from a source of true miraculous phenomenon
that Eliza had never been exposed to. So, yes, the trickery and gimmicks ruled the magical realm,
but who’s to say that the magic isn’t real? Eliza herself didn’t know how real it would be until that
one, fateful Spring day when she met him.
“Him” actually went by the name of Magundalous, which Eliza found absolutely
unacceptable. It sounded too close to the word “magnificence” for her liking, which was something
that Magundalous certainly was not. After his first introduction, she decided that that was not the
name she would be using for him. She decided that it would just have to be “Mag”, because any
other form of shortening just sounded ridiculous. Calling him “Dalous” would give the image that
he was a dull man, which he certainly was not. And renaming him “Gunda” sounded too much
like an accented form of the name “Gunther”, so “Mag” it would have to be.
The day she met Mag, Eliza was out in her front yard watering her daffodils, wishing that
they would just take care of themselves like all the other flowers. The lilies that Janice next door
watched over knew how to get up and just get their own drink of water. And the sunflowers across
the street which belonged to Meredith could stretch taller and taller and go into clouds to absorb
their moisture. And on top of all that, both of their flowers stayed alive all year round, and her
flowers only appeared in the Spring. The daffodils, the blasted daffodils that Eliza’s mother just

Memory of Magnificence

2

loved, were about as useful and self-preserving as a wet piece of paper.
In her huff about having to take care of something other than herself, Eliza had failed to
notice a tall man with a long cloak billowing behind him approaching her yard from behind. When
he spoke in his smooth and almost slippery voice, Eliza nearly dropped her watering can out of
fright.
“Excuse me,” he ventured delicately. “Would you happen to be Eliza Coolidge?”
She turned around with a start. “I am,” she answered curiously. “And who is asking?”
The man opened his arms wide as though he was presenting a grand show of marvelous
people, however he was the only one being presented. “My name is Magundalous. I am the watcher
of time and the head of the Arguntus School for Magic.”
After deciding that Magundalous’s name just wouldn’t do, Eliza questioned, “School for
magic? There isn’t any such thing as magic. That is just silly stories that the media has come up
with to keep us on our toes. Magic does not exist, why would there be an entire school dedicated
to teaching something that isn’t real?”
Mag looked at her as though she had acquired two extra heads. He scoffed. “Magic doesn’t
exist. How could you ever think that?” Before Eliza had a chance to give her answer, the man
continued. “Don’t you see those sunflowers stretching all the way to the sky? Don’t you see the
lilies climbing out of their dirt homes to quench their thirst? Magic is all around us, it’s just no one
has known the truth of it until now.”
Eliza attempted to interject, but Mag went on with his speech without pause. “Arguntus
has been around for ages. Witches, wizards, and warlocks have lived in secret, while controlling
the word around the normals for all of creation. The flowers were not always so self-sufficient. All
used to be like your daffodils here. Just meant to look pretty and rely on others.” Eliza now didn’t

Memory of Magnificence

3

know what to say.
“You, Eliza, poor Eliza, have been forced to live among the normals for most of your life
because of your mother. She didn’t tell you who you are, Eliza. You are a witch, descent from one
of the most powerful lines ever known. Now, I need you to come with me to Arguntus because
there is much to learn and not nearly enough time. Now that the normals know of the magical, they
will find our safe haven and attempt to break in to learn more, the way they do. We need all the
help we can muster in order to make it so that doesn’t happen.” Mag clasped his hands in front of
himself. His long, ginger beard almost reached to where they rested.
Eliza was taken aback. This insane man spoke as though magic was real, but not only real,
all around them. She considered the flowers. She never thought them to be anything strange. The
other flowers were always more special than her daffodils. Her mother always told her that that
was just the way it was. How could she believe this Magundalous over her own mother?
“I will not go with you,” she decided. “How am I supposed to know whether this is all an
elaborate lie or not?”
“A lie?” Mag questioned. “Why would I take the trouble to lie to you? There would be no
point, no point whatsoever in my doing so. Now, please, you really do need to come with me.”
“I’m sorry,” Eliza persisted. “But I am not going to do that.”
Mag sighed. “I really was rather hoping that I would not have to do this.” He reached
forward and grabbed Eliza by the arm.
Before she knew what was happening, she felt a pull in the pit of her stomach and found
that she was suddenly somewhere else entirely. Eliza looked around her new surroundings, still
holding her watering can with a tight grasp, and saw that she was in a long dark hallway lit only
by flaming torches lining the stone walls. The high arched doorways that were on either side of

Memory of Magnificence

4

her held small plaques at the top stating either “Amphibian Wing” or “Reptile Wing.”
“Are we in a zoo?” Eliza asked Mag, who was standing next to her, once she finally found
her voice which had been hidden with the sudden relocation.
“Of course we are not in a zoo. What in heavens name would cause you to think that?” He
then looked back and forth between the signs that Eliza had noticed. “Oh. Of course. No.
Amphibians and reptiles are creatures that hold almost as much magic as you and I. All the wings
of this school are named after powerful creatures.”
Eliza nodded, still entirely shocked by her abrupt change of scenery. She found her voice
once more and asked, “So, this is the school you mentioned before?”
“Indeed,” Mag answered. “Follow me. We must start your training right away. We want
no risk of death now do we?”
“Well, of course not,” Eliza replied. “But whose death are we risking? My own or someone
else’s?”
“Your own of course. If too much magic is attempted too quickly, you very well might
implode.”
“I guess that’s good to know.” Eliza felt as though she was in a dream. They talked about
magic constantly on the television, but her being magical? There could be absolutely no way. She
must have fainted while watering her flowers and hit her head on something hard. That’s what was
causing the hallucinations. That’s all this was. That and nothing more.
However, Eliza had begun to doubt her hallucination theory when she and Mag strode
down the hallway leading the way to the Amphibian Wing. He took her into a room that was
decorated with dramatic drapes and splattered with small and significant stains that very likely
were the result of burning.

Memory of Magnificence

5

What Eliza didn’t notice right away was pointed out by Mag with a dramatic gesture of his
right hand. “This, my young dear, is Henry. He will be the one to train you in the true art of magic.”
Mag looked down at Eliza who was still grasping the watering can in her right hand. “I’ll take
that.” He snatched it away from her and it disappeared in a puff of purple smoke.
A tall man with dark and wispy hair stepped away from a desk that was littered with papers
and parchment that seemed as though they could belong from any era but the one they were
currently a part of. He held out his hand to Eliza, and as she took it in her own, he introduced
himself. “As Magundalous stated, my name in Henry.”
“I’m Eliza,” she said, observing the man who wore clothes that did not match his young
and sculpted face. “How are you today?”
Henry smiled a light grin that seemed to carry none of the weight the world tried to force
down. He answered, “Very well. And yourself?”
“Good,” Eliza answered politely, before reconsidering her statement. “Well, actually, a bit
befuddled.”
Henry nodded empathetically. “Very reasonable for your current situation. As I understand,
you are the girl who was deprived of her true nature for all her life?”
“I guess that’s one way to put it,” Eliza responded.
“Well, it will all become clear to you as soon as we begin our lessons.” Henry then directed
his gray eyes to Mag, whom Eliza had honestly completely forgotten the presence of. “Would it
be alright if we went ahead and began the lessons?”
“Well,” Mag answered, “I do believe that sooner has a great advantage on later.” He paused
and took one more sweep around the room with his eyes that glowed slightly purple. “I must be
off. I have a few more Misfortunes to find.” And with that, he sauntered out of the room with his

Memory of Magnificence

6

burgundy cloak trailing behind him.
Eliza looked to Henry. “What are Misfortunes?” she inquired.
Henry sighed. “Misfortunes are what Magundalous insists on calling the magical people
who have not been raised with magic. A rather awful name for you all, if you ask me.”
“Yes,” Eliza said, knowing there was reason to her negative impression of Mag. “I would
certainly say I have to agree.”
The two were silent for a moment’s time. Eliza listened to the silence that seemed to travel
through the building in thick streams a silk. It was a smooth silence at the same time it was fragile,
as though it could be broken at any instant.
And in the next instant, Henry broke the daring quietness. “Well, the first thing I would
like to focus on is actually finding your powers. Have you ever displayed any instances of any sort
of power throughout your lifetime?”
Eliza thought for a moment. “I would have to say no. I don’t believe I have.”
Henry pursed his lips. “Well, that’s alright. I think I can make this work. Stand in that
corner over there.” Henry gestured to a dark corner on the other side of the room.
Eliza took her place next to a spider web that she desperately attempted not to notice. “So,
what do I do now?” she asked.
Henry approached her, but stayed slightly beyond an arm’s length distance. “I need you to
close your eyes,” he instructed. “Focus on finding your power.”
Eliza did as she was told, deciding that accepting this strange reality was something that
she really must do in order to eventually escape it. A minute passed with her eyes closed and her
breaths steady. When nothing out of the ordinary happened, she reopened her eyes.
“Are you sure you have the right person? Maybe Mag found the wrong Misfortune,” Eliza

Memory of Magnificence

7

offered.
“Mag?” asked Henry with furrowed eyebrows.
Eliza looked down in the direction of her sandals feeling embarrassed that she let the
nickname slip from her lips. “Oh, yes,” she responded quietly. “It’s what I’ve decided to call
Magundalous.”
“Do you find his name too precocious as well?” Henry asked with a kind smile on his face.
“I’ve never thought it quite fit his character. So, between us, it will be Mag from now on. Sound
like a good arrangement to you?”
Eliza raised her eyes to meet his. “Yes, that sounds perfect.”
Henry looked at her for a moment before saying, “Right, about Mag bringing the wrong
person. I can test that right now, though I can honestly say that I rather hope you are the correct
one.”
Henry approached Eliza until they were mere inches from each other. “I’m going to place
my hands on your head if that’s alright?”
“Yes, that’s just fine,” Eliza answered.
Henry placed both his hands gently on the temples of Eliza’s head. He closed his eyes so
Eliza figured she’d better do the same. Suddenly, Eliza felt a presence in her mind that normally
wasn’t there. There was no pain, however there was a slight tickling sensation that spread
throughout her self. When Henry removed his hands, she felt the presence remove itself as well.
“You certainly have power in there, Eliza,” Henry confirmed. “Now we need to locate it.”
He stepped away again and proceeded to instruct her once more. “Try closing your eyes again. Try
to remember that your power does not reside in your mind, it’s in your entire body. Every inch of
your being holds the power to truly make you a splendid witch.”

Memory of Magnificence

8

Again, Eliza did as she was instructed. She attempted to do as Henry told and found that
this time she sensed a slight tingling in her fingertips. She focused on this tingle and felt it spread
throughout her entire body. Soon, she was practically glowing with the power.
She opened her eyes to see Henry staring at her, showing that he was thoroughly impressed.
He could see the power that now encompassed her.
“Give me your best effort and attempt to channel the magic into your hands. Once you
focus it there, use it.”
Eliza concentrated on the power again and felt it drain from her chest and move into her
palms. The power in her legs crawled up and found its place in her fingers. Eliza held her hands
out in front of herself. She didn’t know what she was trying to do with it, but soon the magic shot
from her hands in a bright blue light and made its way to the tapestry on the opposite wall.
Excitement filled Eliza until she saw what she had done. The tapestry was up in flames.
“Oh!” Eliza exclaimed. “How do I make it stop?”
Henry just snapped his fingers and the flames ceased, leaving only a miniscule scorch mark
behind in their place. “We can work on control later,” he stated. “For now, it is just good that we
know you understand how to summon the magic. However, we are going to attempt to keep away
from the fire, at least for the time being. The next subjects we will focus on are transfiguration and
potions. That can wait until later, though.” Henry retrieved his tweed jacket from off the back of
the desk chair and slipped it on. “We should eat before the food disappears.”
If this were the life that Eliza was normally accustom to, she would assume that by
“disappear” Henry simply meant that it would get taken away. However, in this new world she
was shown, she believed that he meant the food would undertake a literal disappearance.
When Henry and Eliza arrive in the dining hall to a very interesting meal of quale and

Memory of Magnificence

9

mashed potatoes, Mag was there to meet them with a grand smile.
“Ah, Eliza,” he said. “Training go well, I suppose?”
Eliza, unsure of how to answer this question, looked to Henry who placed a hand lightly
on her shoulder and nodded. “I suppose so,” she answered.
“Yes,” Henry said. “We are already making immense progress. I know that Eliza will be
able to use her power for greatness as soon as she masters it, which won’t take too, too long.”
“Good,” Mag said. “Very good. Now, Eliza, there is a question that I’ve been meaning to
ask you. Your hair, is it naturally blonde or dyed that color?”
Eliza found the question a bit rude but proceeded to answer it anyways. “For the most part,
it is my natural color.”
And their odd conversation ended with that. Magundalous pranced away to go speak to the
other Misfortunes.

After dinner, Henry and Eliza returned to the study to partake in more magic lessons. As Henry
previously stated, they would be working on transfiguration.
“We’re going to attempt something simple first to help you grasp the concept. I need you
to concentrate on these blades of grass and turn them into daffodils. Just focus and imagine what
you want them to be. Remember to find your power and focus it to your hands.”
Eliza looked at the grass that was set in the midst of piles upon piles of books on a small
brown table that’s legs elevated it to right below her chest. Once again when focusing on her
power, she felt the tingling sensation spread throughout her body. She gathered the power in her
hands.
Daffodils, she thought as she gazed at the blades of bright green grass growing from the

Memory of Magnificence

10

small terracotta pot in front of her. Daffodils. Daffodils. Daffodils.
Eliza held her hand out and touched the grass with her fingertips. She saw the blue light
transfer from her hands unto the grass. It grew before her eyes and changed into lovely yellow
daffodils, just like the ones that grew modestly in her front yard.
She looked to Henry feeling very excited about what she had just done. “I did it!” she
exclaimed with pure enthusiasm.
“You did!” Henry beamed, clearly just as excited as Eliza. He clapped her on the shoulder
to signal a job well done.
After the grass, they continued to move on to a more vast selection of transfigurable
objects. Soon, Eliza was changing rats to teacups and chairs into buildings (they had to move
outside to the school grounds for the latter). The school grounds consisted of vast rolling hills and
stepping stone pathways that could lead anyone almost anywhere. The school grounds never
seemed to end. And the strangest thing was, that even with the beyond full dining hall she had seen
on her first night, Eliza and Henry were alone together almost no matter where they went. And
Eliza didn’t mind this one bit.
By Eliza’s fifth day at Arguntus, she could already change a simple book into a magnificent
dragon with glowing green scales and fiery breath. The dragon was absolutely splendid to look at,
but due to the dangerous atmosphere it created, it had to be transfigured back into the simple book.
After the fifth day, Henry and Eliza began to work on potions. He taught her how to make
sleeping potions and memory potions and growing potions and so much more. Eliza thoroughly
enjoyed the making of the potions because they all had their own unique scent and appearance.
The sleeping potion was a deep purple and it released a soft pine smell that relaxed her so much
she had to sit down. The memory potion was a murky white and smelled of melted white chocolate,

Memory of Magnificence

11

warm and smooth. The growing potion held a forest green tint and had a salty smell that Eliza
didn’t particularly like.
Throughout all her training, Henry was there to assist her with any problems or questions
she came across. By the end of her first week at the school, Eliza was finding that for once, she
rather enjoyed the company of another person. And in this case, that person was Henry, the best
wizard she had ever known, not that she had many to compare him to. She knew his kind heart and
his deep eyes held all the good power in this magical realm. She wanted to be with the good he
produced forever.
One night she asked him, “Are we going to learn charms and spells soon?”
Henry regarded her with kind amusement. “We can if you would really like to, but to be
perfectly honest, Mag is the only one who uses them. Spells and charms are really only for showy
flair, not so much power. True power comes from your soul, not your fancy words.”
Because of Henry, Eliza understood that the magical world was not absurd gimmicks and
cruel trickery. It was amazing.

Late one night, Eliza heard a knock sound on the door of her bedchambers. She rose from her bed
cautiously to see who was waiting on the opposite side. She tiptoed across the stone floors with
her bare feet and grasped the cold, metal handle. With a creak, the door opened and Eliza saw
Henry standing behind it.
“Sorry to disturb you so late,” Henry said with an apologetic smile. “There’s something
that I would very much like to show you.”
“Well, alright,” Eliza said, instantly relaxed upon sight of Henry. She looked to his hands
to see if there was anything clutched between them but they were void of any interesting objects.

Memory of Magnificence

12

“Where is it?”
Henry held out his hand to her and said, “Come with me and I’ll show you.”
Eliza took his hand and held it firmly. Henry took her down the steep stairwell and out the
front doors of the school into the green grounds. Still holding his hand, Eliza looked at him
expectantly. She didn’t see anything out of the ordinary on the land, so she was unsure of where
to look.
“Look up,” Henry told her as though he read her mind. She did just that and saw millions
of bright streaks falling throughout the sky. “They’re shooting stars,” Henry explained. “Beautiful,
don’t you think?”
Eliza was in awe of the beauty of the stars. They were amazing. With her hand still in
Henry’s, Eliza moved his arm so it was wrapped around her shoulders. She leaned into his chest
and watched the lights swirl around the sky creating beautiful patterns before falling away from
her sight. The two stayed in that positon watching the stars until they ceased lighting up the sky.

The next day, they moved away from potions and moved into dueling techniques.
“Alright, Eliza,” Henry instructed as he gestured to a small, pearl colored ball. “I’m going
to throw this ball at you and you are going to block it with magic, understand?”
“I do,” Eliza said.
She held up her hands with her palms facing outward in preparation. She gathered up all
her power and was immensely ready for whatever Henry threw at her. Henry picked up the small
ball from the side table and tossed it in her direction. With a force field around herself, she blocked
the ball effortlessly. After a few more attempts of this, the ball soon changed to magic. Henry
would throw an orb of power at her and she would block it and sometimes even cause it to move

Memory of Magnificence

13

back in his direction. They continued with this practice for days until Mag came in and told them
it was almost time.
“Time for what, exactly,” Eliza asked Henry after Mag left them alone in the room.
Henry was quiet for a moment as though he was unsure of how to answer. He had never
not known what to say in response to her inquires before so this struck Eliza as quite odd behavior.
“Henry, what is it?”
Henry was quiet still. “I…” he ventured. “I was hoping that it wouldn’t come so soon. It’s
almost time to make all the normals forget about magic. It should have no harm on them, however
there is the possibility that…” he trailed off leaving his sentence unfinished.
“Possibility of what?” Eliza pushed.
“There’s a slight possibility that you may forget as well. You are a witch, a very powerful
one at that, however you have been exposed to the normal world throughout your entire life. The
potion may cause you, and many of the other Misfortunes to forget what they’ve learned here.
Forget the people that they’ve met here.”
Eliza covered her mouth. She didn’t want to forget. Two weeks ago she didn’t know that
she wanted this, she didn’t know that she could have this, but now that she had been exposed she
never wanted to give the magic up. She didn’t want to give Henry up. And by the way Henry was
looking at her with his light eyes and his sad smile, she could tell that he felt the same way.
“You might not forget,” Henry said in an attempt to counteract her sorrow. “You certainly
have enough power.”
“Well,” Eliza said as she took a step forward making it so that she and Henry were mere
inches apart. “In case I do.”
Placing her hand gently on the side of Henry’s face, Eliza stood on her tiptoes to kiss him.

Memory of Magnificence

14

Henry returned the kiss by touching his hands carefully to her back and expressing without any
words needed that he wouldn’t let her forget him. He would be with her forever.
They pulled away and Henry said that they had better go meet Mag and the others on the
grounds. When they exited the grand building, Eliza saw more people than she had ever imagined.
They were standing with locked hands facing the opposite way of the school, wrapping around it,
forming a large circle. Henry and Eliza joined the others. In the linked line of people, Eliza’s left
hand held onto Henry’s right and her right hand held onto the left of a little girl standing beside
her. Each witch, wizard, and warlock was given a vial of memory potion that hung around their
necks by an attached string.
Mag spoke in a voice that they did not hear through their ears, rather they heard him in
their minds. “Focus on the vial,” he said. “Make it float and cause it to go up to the sky.”
All the interlocked people did as they were told. Thousands of vials were lifted up to the
sky with no physical beings touching them. They went up and up until Eliza couldn’t see them
anymore. Then, it began to rain. The memory potion poured over the entire world.
Eliza released the little girls hand and wrapped herself around Henry who held her in his
arms. She felt the rain slide down her cheek.
I won’t forget. I won’t forget. I won’t forget.

Eliza awoke in her bed with her head beating against her skull. She rubbed her eyes. She felt as
though she had woken from a marvelous dream, but couldn’t remember a single detail about it.
There was something in her mind that she couldn’t quite grasp. Eliza gave up on attempting to find
the impossible and crawled from her bed to begin another day. This normal routine that she had
held her entire life continued for the rest of the week.

Memory of Magnificence

15

One morning, while pouring herself a hearty bowl of cereal, Eliza heard a knock on her
front door.
Now, who could that be? She questioned. It was far too early for anyone to casually be
stopping by.
Eliza opened the door to see a tall man with dark, wispy hair and a young face that didn’t
match the age of the clothes he wore.
“Henry,” she breathed.
His eyes lit up with pure joy. “You remember me?” he asked incredulously. He took a step
forward.
Eliza thought for a small moment’s time. “Well, no. I don’t. I actually have no idea who
you are. I don’t even know how I knew your name. It is Henry, correct?” She took a step back.
His eyes fell. “Yes. It is.” He stepped back as well.
Eliza felt saddened. “I’m really sorry that I don’t know who you are. I feel as though I
should, but there is just nothing there.”
“It’s quite alright,” Henry said meekly. “However, I would have to disagree with you about
nothing being there. You remembered my name, so that means all the memories are locked deep
inside that wonderful mind of yours and I just need to help you find them.” He stepped forward
cautiously. “I know this is a ridiculous thing to ask of you, but do you trust me?”
Without thinking, Eliza answered, “Yes. I don’t know why, but yes.”
“Excellent.” Henry got closer to her. “I’m going to place my hands on your head, if that’s
alright?”
Eliza nodded her head. “Yes, quite alright.”
Henry reached his hands forward, lightly placing each hand on both her temples. Suddenly,

Memory of Magnificence

16

Eliza felt a tickling sensation in her mind and a presence in there that was other than her own.
Henry’s eyes were closed and he seemed to be concentrating very hard. After what felt like an
eternity, he smiled triumphantly.
“I found them,” he muttered.
He removed his hands from her head and his presence from her mind. At first nothing
happened. Then, all of the sudden, memories came flooding into her consciousness. Everything
from her two weeks at Arguntus was back and hopefully there to stay.
“Henry?” Eliza said tenderly.
“Eliza, do you remember me?”
A smiled filled her face because she did. She leaped forward and wrapped her arms around
him, so excited to be back in his arms. “Can we go back to Arguntus now?” She whispered in his
ear, feeling happier than she had ever felt in her life.
“Of course.”
Eliza, the young woman who was living in a world where anything was possible finally
believed that that was so.


