Once the bells jingle, what can only be a lost mannequin from Urban Outfitters,
obviously annoyed to stumble upon a mattress store, enters with a dripping yellow
umbrella. She props open the door with her black boot, yelling, “Justin, will you please
get the hell in here?” Her voice is a regular corkscrew to the urethra. The kid just tips his
black hat over his forehead and yanks his black-shirt that’s freckled from rain over his
chub. Even though I’m a quarter-focused on the Phillies-Dodgers game, one of four
screens open, relaxing on a lazy Sunday afternoon, I tuck away the Galaxy and slip off
the merchandise to make eye contact – the first rule of good salesmanship.
She slowly unbuttons her jacket and scans the store. She has plump lips. An
overpowering perfume, something almond-infused and opiate-laced, perhaps, something
labeled Forbidden Passion, divides the air in the mattress store and hits the mark. My
interest rises, if you get my drift. Underneath her jacket a tight orange hoodie and lowrise jeans define her reconstructed figure. She’s on the first few holes of forty, I guess,
with long black hair, dyed with what can only be imported Mediterranean squid ink from
Nordstrom’s; she’s a walking American Express Gold Card. But then, wait: I know her.
My hands have known her.
“Good afternoon,” I say as if the store has suddenly materialized around her.
“Looks like you beat the heavy rain.”
“That’s why we need to make this quick,” she snaps.

Dope

2
Her eyes give her away; I know those Nefertiti eyes of black that hint of the

dangers and delights of the Nile. Sure, I wrote back in high school and sure enough, I
danced with this Sphinx a year ago at a Professional Business Singles Dance. The cherry
blossoms were out then. What was her name? Michele? Michele with a lonely L? I had
been scouring these singles events for years, dances at hotels, and speaker events about
‘finding happiness while single’, and it was always the speaker who scooped the most dip
with the choicest chip, if you get my meaning. But by the end of that evening, I had
managed to secure her business card that read “Innovative Designs by Michele.” To make
sure I didn’t loose it, I gripped the card, but the sweat from my hand smeared the phone
number. Three calls, three messages, but she never returned my call.
“My son needs a new bed,” she says sternly. “I guess it’s a twin size.”
“Yes. And my name’s Doug,” After quickly wiping my hand on my faded beige
Dockers, I extend my hand, but she doesn’t see my gesture. She doesn’t remember me. I
say: “Looks like he’s outgrown a toddler bed…”
“Are these the twins?” she asks.
“Yes, but those aren’t the only twins on display. All of the models can be ordered
as a twin. This model here, The Dreamstate Pose Sleep Excelsior II, is the lowest quality
I wish to sell. . .”
She asks for a bathroom. I point through the store. “I just cleaned it this morning,”
I say, but this for some reason startles her. Doesn’t she clean bathrooms? She checks her
purse, perhaps for a maxi pad, and oh, to be that maxi pad, and she strides through the
store as regally as if brandishing a staff. Then it starts: the rain, and what rain. I approach
her man-child Justin who’s pushing down on each bed. “Can I ask you a question?” I ask.

Dope

3

“If it’s none of my business, you can just tell me to back off, Mattress Dude. But what’s
with your hat that says “dope?”
The kid just glares at me.
“You’re either advertising you’re a dope addict or you’re an idiot. You know, a
dope means an idiot. And why would you want people to know that about you?”
“I don’t care what a forty year old man thinks…”
I laugh. “I’m actually forty-four.”
“Whatever. It’s just an expression,” the kid says. “You know, ‘that’s so dope.’”
“Ah, like cool?”
“Kinda, yeah. That’s dope.”
I glance across the Cherry Orchard Shopping Plaza. The rain is biblical now. I
spot a canary yellow Mini Cooper nestled illegally in a recess where the dump truck pulls
up for the trash. My beat-up hatchback Civic, parked around the back, would hit 200,000
miles by the weekend. Since the heat went, I dread another winter scraping the ice off the
windows from the inside, but it still gets me from A to B. Michele is taking her sweet
time.
“Is that your car?” I ask.
The kid nods.
“That’s the dope!”
The kid smirks. I notice a black nose in the crack of the Mini’s window.
“What kind of dog is that?”
A soon as Justin blurts out a Pomeranian, Michele returns, rearranging the
furniture in her purse. She asks if we have been discussing business.

Dope

4
“He’s a fine boy,” I say.
“He’s a pain in my ass, to be perfectly frank.”
“Then maybe it’s you who needs a new comfortable bed, right?”
Why doesn’t she laugh? Hearing the rain, she opens the door, jingles the bells,

and exclaims, “shit.” The fresh air refreshes her perfume. She gazes at her car, obviously
concerned with the rain getting in the car as well as her dog inside the car. It must be
cumbersome to bring an animal everywhere you go. She conducts a private soliloquy
with her pooch while her son moves to the Canyonland Whisper Rhapsody Pillowtop
King. Would it would worth it, I wonder, to have a kid like Justin, if Justin was my only
shot at having a descendent?
“I don’t like this bed,” the boy says. “It’s too firm.”
“Feel free to lie down,” I suggest as the kid stretches out. A mess of cherry
blossoms dirties the foot of the bed. The rain thunders on the roof. I ask the boy if he
likes the Phillies chances of another title.
“It’s gay,” the kid replies.
“Gay? Baseball’s a man’s sport,” I say. “It’s the All-American pastime.”
“It’s the All-American Gay-time,” the boy says.
“What do you think of the bed?” the mother asks pondering the rain, not looking
at him. “We don’t have much time. Do you see how bad it is out there?”
“You should wait until it passes,” I suggest.
“I don’t want to be stuck in a mattress store all afternoon,” she replies. Even if it’s
true, can she think for a moment how much that hurts?
“I don’t like this one,” the boy says, bouncing up and down.

Dope

5
“How about this one?” I say, patting the next model. “This one you’ll like.”
The boy peels one of the cherry blossoms from his sneaker, rolls it like a booger,

sniffs it, flicks it and says, “Dude, that’s a P.O.S.”
“Watch your language young man!” Michele says.
“I didn’t say piece of shit.”
“You shouldn’t talk that way to a lady, young man,” I say.
She glares at me, the mattress man, the man in a dead-end job at forty-four; she
glares indirectly, avoiding my eyes. “Please. I can handle this.” Then she turns to her son.
“When it’s your money, you can…”
Muffled inside her purse, her phone rings out to Lady Gaga. A village in Africa
could live for a year on what the purse cost. Like a snow shovel her ass clears a spot on
my desk, moving pictures, the book 1776, and a Camden County College course guide. I
guess it doesn’t matter what’s in her way. Then I wonder: why didn’t she call me back?
Was it something I said? Did I talk too much baseball while dancing? Why doesn’t she
remember me? I didn’t change much over the past year; a few missing hairs here and
there, a few extra pounds, and maybe a new wrinkle under my blue eyes. But I remember
her. You can’t work in a mattress store and not fantasize about women, especially when
you have no one. Why did I even like her? Was it just because her booty could be
inducted into the Booty Hall of Fame? If that’s true, what does that make me?
“Bet you’d impress the ladies on this one?” I tell the boy, pushing on the mattress.
“It’s got the right amount of give.”
“What?”

Dope

6
“You have a nose for quality, my boy. Go ahead. Lie down. Don’t be shy. This

one’s just right,” I say like Goldilocks.
Just then an oak frame from my desk falls – the glass shattering. It’s a picture of
my dad.
“Oh,” she says, looking down. “It must have slipped.”
“It was an accident,” I say. “It’s okay.”
By now the rain is horrendous; like the monsoon scenes from Bangladesh, the rain
that drowns oxen. “Looks like we’re under Niagara Falls, huh?”
Annoyed, she glances at her watch, as if her eyes read, ‘we just had to come out
today for this, right’? She asks her son: “Have you tried every bed in the store?”
“Yep.”
“Which one do you like?” He points to the one. “How much is it?”
I examine the tag. The mattress alone costs six hundred and ninety five. It also
comes with a full ten-year warranty. She doesn’t see spending that much on just a twin
mattress. As the boy tosses and turns on the bed, he says, “This one is just right, this one
is juuuuust right.” The kid arches his back, pulls up his pants, and smiles as he runs his
hand over the white pillow top. “Why such a problem? It’s my dad’s money.”
“Let me discuss it with my son.”
What did it matter what I said? I just plug in numbers, fill out forms, and swipe
credit cards. I chewed on a pen. Then, after two minutes or twenty minutes, with a wave
of her hand, she informs me of her son’s decision. “After all, it is his bed,” she says.
“Whatever the kid wants, that’s dope!”
I pull out the forms.

Dope

7
“Keep that hat off inside!” the mother says. “Don’t you have any manners?”
“Nope,” Justin replies, taking off the hat slowly, twirling it around his finger.
Just then she screams, “Oh God! The car’s floating!” A flash flood swamps the

parking lot and the car drifts away from the curb. I ask her to quickly throw me the keys:
“I’ll get the car for you!”
“My dog is in there!”
“Don’t worry,” I say.
Michele tosses me her keys, a keychain with a pink margarita. I’m doused as soon
as I leave the store; the water is well over my ankles. It gets deeper as I approach the car.
The water is almost door level. Cherry blossoms form a pink racing stripe on the car. I
open the car with the electric opener and the lights flash. But I couldn’t hear it open; the
rain’s too loud. The Pomeranian yaps madly. As soon as I sit in the front seat, the dog
with a Napoleon complex attacks my right flank, biting my pinky. I yelp as he yaps as I
try to throw the Little Corporal off me. “I’m hear to rescue you,” I tell the Corsican, but
now he’s storming my shoulders. I wince and grab some fur, and that’s when I realize
that I’m fighting a wolf that’s not fifty times smaller but fifty times fiercer. The door
opens, and this Dog of Destiny falls into the rushing waters. I stumble out of the car,
close the door, and tramp several feet to scoop up the menace. I’m worried that the car
would hit me, but for now the car has stopped drifting; maybe the pavement has inched
up a bit, like on a sandbar; to keep the mad Napoleon safe I toss the him into the trunk
and drive the car up on the grass, well away from the rushing water. By the time I make it
into the store, Michele is shouting, “Polly, oh Polly.” I couldn’t just leave Polly the Ogre
locked away on the island of Elba, although it would be good for democracy if I did.

Dope

8

With the yellow umbrella, I race back like a hunchback. The rain is still horrible, but
there’s clearing in the West. I struggle with the dog that must think he’s been kidnapped.
He’s yelping and fidgeting, and I feel like sailing across the pond back to Poland, or
wherever Pomeranians originate or coagulate.
Mother Michele and daughter Polly exchange an uncomfortable number of kisses
and caresses and assurances of that “never happening again for as long as I live.” I guess
the only way to get action these days is to grow fur and have the love of your lap pick up
your crap. She doesn’t notice the blood on my hand. Then she says: “I guess I should
thank you,” Michele says. “Is the car okay?”
“It started up fine,” I say. “That’s quite a little number you got.”
“It’s not flooded?”
“The engine’s not, no,” I say. “But you’ll need a towel for the inside.”
I hold my finger and search for a band-aid.
Then I ask: “Listen, don’t you remember me?”
She doesn’t seem to hear me. She’s coddling her pooch, rubbing his fur, saying
what an adventure he must have had in that flood, protecting her car from some stranger.
“I’m Doug. Doug Rybeck. Remember? That PBSN dance?” I ask louder. “We
danced, had a nice time, and you gave me your number.”
“When was that?”
“A year ago. I remember because the cherry blossoms were out. It was a gorgeous
spring last spring.”
“Why, yes, I do remember. I’m sorry. It’s been so long.”
The kid says the rain is letting up. He’s ready to leave.

Dope

9
“I left a message, two messages, with your son. How come you didn’t call me

back?”
“Oh, I don’t know. I don’t think I ever got the messages.”
“Mom, this guy’s some pervert,” Justin says. “He said I would impress the ladies
on the mattress. Said the mattress had a lot of give.” The kid thrusts his hips. “He moved
your car just to get some action, your action. He must have heard about your Brazilian
wax.”
“Is this true, about what you said to my son?”
“It was banter. Between men.”
She reminds me that her son is only a child. So the kid sells me down the
Delaware River and hammers the final nail in the coffin. I’m waterlogged too – like
driftwood. My socks are soaked, like my underwear. And I don’t know where my penis
went. So, is this what children do? Kill game – they’re the ultimate game killer.
“So would you like to give it another try? We could get some coffee, or a towel.”
“Well, you aren’t really… how can I say this, a professional business…”
“My mom doesn’t date balding mattress salesmen,” the boy says.
“I’m not going to do this forever,” I say. “I’m just waiting for my opportunity…
and most people don’t recognize opportunity because it often means hard work.” That
was on my tea bag from the morning. “And, you still look great. And that term
‘professional’ can be interpreted many different ways… And it’s only in America where
what people do matter more than who they are, isn’t that right?”
“Well, we’re in America,” Justin says. “And it’s America’s rule.”

Dope

10
Michele says his kind words meant a lot, but that she is “involved” with someone,

and it would be better just to keep everything on a professional level, the buyer and the
seller of her son’s mattress, which she expects to hear about soon. She thanks me for
what I did for her dog. “And oh, yeah, with the car too.” She escorts her Enlightened
Despot with the umbrella to her Mini.
“Listen,” says Justin, “I didn’t want a mattress salesman for a step-father. That’s
right. I deleted the messages. I need to look out for my mom. She doesn’t have the best
choice in guys, and I’m tired of the carousel of losers.”
Annoyed, Michele yells, “Justin, will you please hurry the hell up?”
“At least I’m not out loved by a bundle of fur and teeth!” I reply.
Justin frowns, places his hat on crooked, and swaggers outside as confidently if
he’ll never know pain. He’ll be lucky if there’s a mattress store in his future. I slip out my
phone. The Phillies are still losing. I close that window. I nurse my finger, change into
my old tracksuit, dry my hair underneath the hand dryer, and sit at my desk, gazing at
Michele’s name on the invoice. I would never pay that much for a mattress, especially for
a spoiled kid. How come stupid people have money? I have her address. I have her phone
number. I still have her business card. Perhaps I could drive by her house. Threaten the
son. Kidnap the damn dog. Puncture the tires of her precious mini Cooper. Take a dump
in her purse. But perhaps the son is right. After picking up the book from floor, I glance
at Washington on the cover of 1776 at the decisive Battle of Princeton. I’m no George
Washington. I apologize to my father’s picture and place him back in the corner of the
desk – the glass cracked.

Dope

11
So I watch some soft porn on You Tube. Lesbians are dope, all right. I never need

to hyperlink to the x-rated sites. The teasers are just fine. And I’ll be okay. I can spend a
few more months at the Rest Assured mattress store in Marlton, New Jersey before doing
what I need to do to get my business in order, and I can remain comfortable in my dad’s
crumbling two-bedroom rancher in Pennsauken that I will inherit after his death. There’s
a PBSN event at the Sheraton this weekend. And sure, I’ll be okay. Hope springs eternal,
right? Whatever happens, I’ll be okay.
An hour later the bells jingle on the door, but this time I just can’t get up.


