The garbage capsules erupt from the sleeping chimneys at five AM. The sky is a
trying shade of grey at five in the morning, a struggling bleak. But the mile high plumes
of white fill the sky over the cul-de-sacs and dice up the cold grey backdrop. The white
plumes trail behind the capsules as they leave the chimneys. A new pope is elected every
morning in the living room of Mrs. Featherstone.
The launches used to take place later in the day, around ten or eleven. This was
on account of the noise. The chutes would roar and whoosh with the ignition of the
rudimentary thrusters and the capsules would rumble loudly into the stratosphere. A five
AM launch with the whole neighborhood asleep was simply out of the question. The
technology has certainly come a long way. Physicists and rocketeers have sine developed
a nearly silent launch system. Now it is possible to sleep through such an event, even
when it is taking place in your very own living room. The family dog might object to the
distinctive whistle of the capsule as it rushes up the chimney, but the luxury and
convenience of such a disposal system seems to have convinced many homeowners in
Radium Springs to abstain from such attentive house pets. Those who have found they
can’t live without their furry quadruped by their side tend to live a few miles outside of
town out of respect for their neighbors.
Yes, everyone seems to be quite content with the new five AM launch. The white
smoke trails usually drift away into indistinguishable clouds by eight o’clock, which
makes it particularly easy for Mr. Aedlewood to convince himself on his morning
commute that he doesn’t in fact live in a world that must eject its volatile waste into the

Rocket-Bye Baby
depths of space in an effort to prevent the Earth from eating itself like a giant radioactive
ulcer.
Elizabeth Rainswell emptied the waste paper baskets into the compacter.
Everything went in: cardboard, glass, food, plastic, battery acid, banana peels, sponge
curlers, and of course the used up U-cores from all the household appliances. Elizabeth
saw that she would need more capsules from the store, the cheap aluminum pills that all
the neat and compacted garbage is crammed into and then launched out into space. She
was fine on everything else: fuel, U-cores, sponge curlers.
She woke early in the grey morning at six thirty AM. She woke up when the long
white straws still hung, stilted, in the air across town. On mornings like this she would
often stand before her window and look out onto the skyline. Never could she find a
meaningful enough simile, however, to describe the unnerving feeling that she sensed
each time she stared from her window and observed haunting columns of smoke.
The drive across Radium Springs to the General Electric Store is short. In a town
the size of Radium Springs there isn’t much need for anything else besides the GES. It
has just about everything anyone would need: groceries, tools, odds & ends, and always a
fresh stock of U-cores straight from the factory.
Elizabeth walked through the decompressing pneumatic doors and sent a friendly
wave towards Mrs. Weatherby behind the counter. Mrs. Weatherby was an old, wideeyed maid who’d been working behind that counter for years. She was the type who
desperately wished to become everyone’s mother and to give advice to anyone who
wasn’t asking. Capsules and U-cores were all at the back of the store, which forced the
customers to be led astray through the aisles of household toys and foodstuffs. “A pillow

Rocket-Bye Baby
that warms and cools itself! Powered by U-core!” The fine print for health risks was too
small for Elizabeth to care to read. Elizabeth placed a large package of 30 capsules in her
cart. They were wrapped together with a crinkly ream of cellophane, but the smooth,
shiny, round tops of the capsules were visible through the packaging.
“Did you hear?” said Mrs. Weatherby, as Elizabeth steered the cart in front of the
counter.
“Hear what?” Mrs. Weatherby was an unashamed lover of scurrilous gossip, and
Elizabeth knew well enough not to sound disinterested.
“Terra Ash! Do you know her? Police took her away this morning.”
Elizabeth unloaded her cart, placing cans of beans and peaches on the counter
with a cocked eyebrow.
“Oh, it’s just terrible. She kept to herself, you know, and she had that little
baby?”
“Yea, I know it. What about her? What did she do?” asked Elizabeth, undeniably
interested.
“It’s just the most awful thing you’ve ever heard,” said Mrs. Weatherby as she
shook her dewlapped face in dismay. “Now I don’t know for sure--but that evil woman!
She must not have been right! This morning—now this is just rumors now, but Deputy
Forester come in here and told me what he could. This morning, she took that baby of
hers and put it inside one of them capsules.” Mrs. Weatherby’s eyes were peeled behind
her glasses, and now so were Elizabeth’s.
“Who told you that?” exclaimed Elizabeth.

Rocket-Bye Baby
“Deputy Forester like I said! I haven’t been thinking about anything else since.
That poor-sweet-little baby. How could a mother do that to her own child? There ought
to be a law against letting cold, evil people like that have babies, and I ain’t afraid to say
it, I hope she burns for what she did. That poor baby.” Mrs. Weatherby turned up her
nose. Her face was pointed like a brooding hen.
“That is if it’s true. That’s crazy though. Whew. Terra Ash. I’ve never once
spoken to her.”
“Well that’s what they’re saying. Saying she went crazy and snapped, but I don’t
think it’s any excuse, doing a thing like that to a helpless-sweet-little baby.”
“Crazy.”
Mrs. Weatherby leaned in, “I heard she dressed it up. Made it look all nice in
little baby dress shoes and a little white gown, the baptism kind. Gave it a bath, combed
its hair and everything. I just don’t understand it! And I can’t help thinking about it. All
day since Deputy Forester came in I haven’t stopped thinking about it. Who would do
something like that when you’re just planning on killin’ it? And in a place like Radium
Springs too!”
“How do you know all this? About the gown and everything? Happened just this
morning right?”
“She called the police right after she did it is what I hear, told ‘em everything and
turned herself in.”
“Was it compacted?”
“Oh no, she did it manually, dear. Loaded it straight through the chute.”

Rocket-Bye Baby
The two stood silently for a moment, eyes diverted to the ground or the counter,
both of them realizing the implications of losing a child in this day and age. Elizabeth
took the bags from the counter and turned to leave.
“Say, when are you going to have some babies?”
“Doctor says I’m barren,” said Elizabeth.
“Oh you just keep trying. Never know with this stuff. Give it a month.”
An embarrassed smile was all that was needed to satisfy Mrs. Weatherby’s
matronly pecks. Elizabeth exited through the pneumatic doors and looked up to see that
the sky was still early morning, still grey. The wind was beginning to blow the long
white plumes, making them look like grass in the wind. That didn’t mean anything to
Elizabeth though. Like Mrs. Weatherby, Elizabeth was thinking about Terra. She had
been one of the few fertile women left in Radium Springs. After all, the town had
originally been a colony for the infertile. It had since grown to serve other purposes, but
the majority of the older women in the town were first generation settlers-- Mrs.
Weatherby included. Terra was of a small, lucky handful-- the crown jewels of the town.
The moment Dr. Sandall confirmed Terra’s pregnancy it was in the local newspaper.
That had been the first time Elizabeth had ever heard of Terra. She was a quite girl, a sad
looking girl from what Elizabeth could see from the picture.
The child’s birth was on the front page of the newspaper, a healthy baby with no
more than four appendages. The birth had taken a toll on Terra. The papers described it
as a “rough birth” and said little more about it other than that Terra would need a few
days recuperation. One only needed to look at Terra to understand that her recovery was
far from a few days recuperation. Elizabeth had seen her in the GES a few weeks after

Rocket-Bye Baby
the birth. Her skin was a sickly translucent grey, the bags under her eyes a ruddy yellow.
Burden was lined in every wrinkle of her face. She did not speak. She did not smile.
She turned away the town’s visitors who were all desperately wanting to see the baby,
understandably ruffling the feathers of a few clucking maids. It had been so long since
any of them had seen a child.
The baby was hardly seen by anyone. For many who lived nearby, the only
indications of its presence were the ceaseless cries that rang out from behind the shut
curtains of the house. Always the cries, and always at five AM. There was talk among
some of the neighbors of asking her to move outside of town, but nothing came of it. For
the most part her introverted nature disturbed and angered the citizens of the town who
felt that the well-being and nurturing of the child should be a community undertaking.
Elizabeth pulled into her driveway and left the bags in the car, the shiny neat
capsules in the back seat, strapped in. She left the front door open and stood in the
middle of the living room floor. It was the same floor plan as the house next to her. If
she walked a hundred feet she would be standing in the middle of the living room next
door, another hundred feet, the middle of the next. Perhaps many of them had fresh
capsules stocked and ready for tomorrow’s launch. Turning, she looked out the large bay
window onto the expanse of the town. White trails from the chimneys rose high into the
sky and disappeared into grey. Perhaps they were all little white babies, thought
Elizabeth. Perhaps they were all the burden of a mother who could not cope. All of them
packed up, nice and neat, off to some place far away and out of sight.
Rain began to fall on Radium Springs. The people went inside and closed the
doors, for it would sting them.

Rocket-Bye Baby


