The American Mactivist had gotten nowhere in his suit of the Catalan separatist. She had
elected to snuggle up on the sofa with the guy from Tel Aviv. They were wearing the same
scarf. The Mactivist tried to counter cock-block, resorting, in his faltering Spanish, to the
observation that a Siberian winter had descended on Berlin. It was no use. The couple had
begun to cause the blanket covering them to undulate rhythmically. The stymied party made
his way to the bathroom.
In the kitchen, a troll was stirring goulash, and the Marmaran girl in the hijab reclined on
the balcony. It was like a scene from literature rendered in oil, the haunchy and caprine
Etruscan churning meat with a long-handled wooden ladle while the bright steam unfurled
from the stove and flushed her face. Snowflakes dissolved and melded with the steam surging
out over the railing. Around her, dead ferns skewered the night from their pots and snow
caught on the fronds, making ghostly ribcages, like the remains of small vertebrates blasted
fleshless and bleached as they emerged from the ground. Children stumbled around in the
hinterhof below, tipplers in the drifts and their heavy winter clothes. The snow bubbling in
the pockets of light that shone out from the windows gave the courtyard the feeling of an
aquarium. Inside the apartment it smelled like melting onions and paprika. The goatish cook
spooned a chunk of meat from the pot and held it before him, blowing. He gobbled it up and
sucked at the air, squinting with apparent discomfort, then slurped the sauce from the ladle
and tongued a molar. He plunged back into the pot and spooned up another chunk of meat
writhing in the mud colored sauce. He held his hand under the bowl of the ladle and brought
it toward the girl on the balcony. “No, thank you,” she said. She inhaled through a cigarette.

1

The cook stared at the smoking hunk of meat and snorted, as if it had betrayed him. Then he
gobbled it up.
“When I was in Istanbul,” he said, swallowing, “I met a pediatrician at the Grand
Bazaar—a student of the classics—who maintained that the first Italians were Turks, that is
to say the Trojan refugees. Is this a widely held view in your country?”
The buzzer made a grinding noise in the apartment and the cook dropped his ladle—
which spat an archipelago of sauce onto the stove top—to rush to the intercom. He mashed
the buzzer with his finger and wiped at the grease left there with his elbow. He had to lick it
off.
The clang and thud of the street door closing behind them preceded the German girl as
she stomped up the stairwell with the American girl. They were speaking in the small voices
that vaults of air in cathedrals, libraries or strange buildings occasion. The cook was waiting
for them at the top of the fifth flight, his paunch looming. “Heiße Schnecken,” he said, as
they heaved themselves up. “Welcome,” he said, “and greetings in the old style.”
The American girl looked at the German girl.
“This is Giorgio,” the German girl said.
“What makes it the ‘old style?’” The American girl said. She was wearing a knit cap.
“Nothing. He just wants to make a spectacle. Kiss him on the opposite cheek.”
The American girl bent down to press her lips to his face where it showed above his
coarse and besmirched beard. A leer of delight clove his mouth and the demented look of joy
worn by children and perverts spread across his face. He led the German girl to the kitchen in
a daze. The American girl wandered into the living room and saw a Swedish fireplace and a
couple on the sofa under a yellow blanket. She took off her hat and coat and draped it over an
armchair. There were wine glasses on the coffee table and she took one and filled it, which

2

failed to precipitate an introduction—the couple on the sofa being totally absorbed in their
canoodling—so she dedicated herself to observing the décor.
On one corner of the bookshelf there was a framed photograph of the apartment building,
which had survived the bombing, one of those stragglers among the dead whose presence
emphasizes the wretchedness completed there. The picture must have been taken from the air
or from another surviving structure. But for the address scratched at the bottom of the photo,
she could not have identified what she was looking at. It might have been another building in
another time, the latest remainder of war, or an excavation site, a temple from antiquity thrust
back into the sky. There were other pictures along the bookshelf. One showed the granite
face of unnamed men seated outdoors in nineteenth century military clothes. They were
posted behind a long, wooden table with their bicycles arranged on the near side, steins of
beer squatting before them, their quaint and barbarous mustaches like taxidermied songbirds
perching on their faces.
In the row of books further along the shelf there were none in English. She tried to puzzle
out the titles and saw one by an author she adored and fetched it down. Perhaps simply by
dint of her intimacy with his work she might parse it. The familiar gesture of opening a book
also stoked her feeling of ingenuity. But the overgrown words hung with their curious
orthography transformed into nothing as she scanned them, which was frustrating. It struck
her as faithless that this book, which had been like a sister to her, should change its name,
offer itself to readers in another tongue and forsake her. She had no other sense with which to
appreciate the pages so she sniffed them, the tart whiff of old paper like the smell of green
plums. She snapped the book shut and slipped it back. There were other volumes she could
comprehend only by the illustrations inside—steppes, jungles, deserts, diagrams of the
unconscious, the habits of the sky, and manuals for measuring bodies and the results of their

3

dissection. There were novels and märchen, stories of haunted churches, sweaty barons,
dying children, and bodies transformed. There were stories of those who went in armor or
robes, those unshod, or impaled, the stories of a continent schooled by agriculture, plague,
darkness, the loins of the middle sea, the empires and tribes shuffled together under the
mournful eyes of a tortured Jew and the centuries of men who had hefted him like a cudgel.
“Hi,” the American Mactivist said, “how’s it going?”
“Hello,” she said.
“My hands are wet,” he said, as if clarifying something.
“Great,” she said.
“That’s this building,” he said, nodding to the picture.
He said his name was Moment and he seemed to expect people to call him that. He thrust
his chin at the couple on the sofa. They looked flushed. “This is Montse,” he said. “She’s
from Barcelona.” He emphasized the lisped syllable. He seemed to be proud of it.
“This is Jonathan,” Montse said, rubbing the shoulder of the guy reclining beside her. She
looked pleased, as though she had just bought something rare for a good price. He smiled
with the triumphal lassitude of the sated.
The American girl told them to call her Bea.
“It could be a picture from Gaza, right?” Moment said, referring to the picture of the
building standing in the rubbled city. He glared at Jonathan, who was gazing drunkenly at the
crown molding.
No one confirmed the comparison.
“It’s also what lots of neighborhoods in America look like,” he went on, “in
neighborhoods of color.” He looked at Bea to approve his review. “More or less,” he said.

4

She was peering at another photograph. “There is a lot of institutional racism in our country,”
he said, “like in Israel.”
This seemed to rouse Jonathan somewhat, but he only smiled and asked Montse for a
cigarette.
“It’s all connected to capitalism,” Moment said. He caught Bea’s eye.
“Right,” she said. She was looking at the picture again.
“Once you really look into it,” he said, “the situation is pretty obvious, especially with the
school to prison pipeline.”
Bea raised her eyebrows and searched the other guests’ faces for signs that they might be
listening to him. “Uh-huh,” she said, rededicating herself to inspecting the pictures: a
boathouse, a girl in a white dress standing in a wheat field.
“Exactly,” he said. “And even if you go to college, you’re paying all this money to
American companies that invest in weapons development and support foreign military states,
like Israel. Which is another tentacle of occupation and imprisonment strangling
disadvantaged communities of color.”
Jonathan sat up. “Who are you talking to?” he said. He seemed truly confused. The
cigarette unspooled smoke in the ashtray.
Moment shook his head, perhaps interpreting Jonathan’s bafflement as defensiveness and
seeking to further inveigle him, “You need to look into the actual policies to know what’s
happening in the Middle East.”
Jonathan grinned at Montse and leaned in to whisper to her.
“Whatever,” Moment said, which seemed to conclude the conversation.
“So,” Bea said, “how do you guys know Giorgio?”

5

“He’s translating my poems to Italian,” Montse said. She squirmed under the blanket and
giggled, turning to Jonathan, swatting at him playfully.
“Oh, that’s nice,” Bea said.
“We used to have sex,” Jonathan said, “with each other.” He gestured at the carpet as if to
indicate where it had taken place.
The German girl Bea had arrived with walked in and greeted the room by nodding once.
“Hi,” Moment said, staring at the woman. She looked like the young baroness from a
period film, her coppery hair swept into a crown, her irises mined from a vein of lapis.
She eyed him with a coolness that betrayed nothing but the fact that she was looking at
him.
“This is Anika,” Bea said.
“Welcome,” Moment said, “and greetings in the style of our elders.”
“She and I work together,” Bea said, hooking a thumb over her shoulder, as if it were all
behind them.
Anika lanced Bea with her gaze, tilting her head to an angle of dismay.
“Did I say that wrong?” Moment said.
Bea looked away from Anika, “We work with Google.”
“I work with Google,” Anika said with supreme patience. “You work for Google.”
The two women seemed to be sparing.
“Right,” Bea said. “That’s more precise. I’m here for a few weeks getting a project
started and Anika’s helping me.”
“We’re feeding the octopus,” Anika said with resignation.
Bea shrugged.

6

“There’s no way other way to say it,” Anika said. Her delivery erased all the aloofness
that Moment had seen in her, or rather overlaid it with brilliance and cunning. He was very
attracted to her.
“That’s another connection,” Moment said, retrieving his earlier line of thinking.
“Especially right now with all the global spying that the NSA is doing through private
companies.”
Anika smiled at him. Moment smiled back, as though they had exchanged a shibboleth.
He slid toward her and made it clear that he knew all about his country’s violations of human
sovereignty perpetrated under the aegis of free enterprise and national security. He made it
clear that this disgusted him. Anika pursed her lips and nodded, approving of his anguish.
They seated themselves opposite the couch and Bea sat on the armchair. She leaned
across an armrest to indicate she could be a part of their conversation, but Anika held
Moment’s gaze and shouldered Bea out. Bea slumped back into her chair, glancing around
for an opening. Jonathan and Montse were cuddling again. Bea found herself spectating the
other pair as they tallied immeasurable woe. Many of their favorite calamities overlapped,
and, like old friends revivifying treasured memories, they marveled at the horrors that
humans had wrecked on one another, filling in each other’s stories—the details of cover-ups
or desecrations overtly wrought. Compiling atrocities seemed to have a tonic effect on them,
as though a robust tabulation might absolve them of any charge of complicity.
They agreed the world was hurtling to oblivion, and to say otherwise was a delusion, the
purview of those complicit with the yoke. Every road led to catastrophe and would soon be
clogged with pilgrims thrashing their founding mounts.
Anika and Moment spoke as if hopelessness and contempt were the virtues that would
furnish some eternal reward after the rapturous deluge drowned everyone else. It was the

7

delectation of the flagellant, beating the inquisitor at his trade. Anika laughed and jogged her
calf over a knee as Moment recited the witticism about a boot stamping on a human face,
forever.
Montse muttered something to herself. She kicked off the blanket and rose to get more
wine, which she dispensed to Bea along with a nod toward the doomers and a roll of her eyes.
Bea mirrored the expression and—as her eyes made their orbit of exasperation—saw that
Moment was watching her. She registered a look of hurt break over his face.
“Oh, so you were talking to Anika,” Jonathan said, as if he had finally puzzled something
out. “Although she was in the other room and you didn’t know her.” He nodded, practically
davening, to show his belated grasp of the situation. “I understand now.”
Moment shook his head and sighed like a long suffering teacher.
Anika patted him on the hand. “Well,” she said. “We’re not being very inclusive.” She
took in the other guests like a sovereign receiving envoys from decrepit lands. She settled on
Bea. “This is Bea’s first time traveling outside of the States, isn’t it Bea?”
“Yes,” she said. “Berlin really reminds me of Chicago, especially the weather.”
“Though there’s not as much obesity and gun violence here you’d have to admit.”
Bea allowed as how the cities differed in that respect.
“I couldn’t believe how much meat people were eating when I visited America,” Anika
said. “You can eat a different animal for every meal. A friend of mine who in high school did
an exchange said his host family for a special meal had three animals that were buried inside
of each other and roasted.”
“That sounds like a turducken,” Bea said. “I’ve never had one of those.”
“Why does that even exist?” Anika said.
“Will you visit anywhere else in Europe?” Montse asked.

8

“Not this trip,” Bea said. “But I’d like to.” She sucked her wine and added, “Anyhow,
what are your poems about?”
Montse vacillated, trying, one might imagine, to find the words to strengthen the rapport
that both women seemed intent on building without having to address the question, which,
Bea realized, after she had asked it, was ridiculous.
“I’m curious,” Anika said, taking advantage of the pause, “have you noticed anything
here that seems strange to you?”
“I don’t know about strange,” Bea said. “Not strange, just, I don’t know—there’s a lot of
nudity, like when we saw that guy’s dick on TV. That was different.”
Anika shrugged. “It’s just a body,” she said. “In America you can walk down the street or
go into a shop wearing a gun on your hip and it’s no problem. But if you’re not wearing
anything around your hips it’s a sex crime.”
“Okay,” Bea said, perplexed and drinking.
“Yes, but that’s just their culture,” Montse said. “It’s just different. You may not agree
with it—I don’t agree with it—but you can’t say it’s bad.”
Anika snorted. “I didn’t say it was bad,” she said, “but you can’t hide behind culture,
either. If you let people have guns they will shoot each other to death. That I think we can say
is bad. So, if something is not working you have to change the culture.”
“That’s right,” Jonathan said, “because it’s so easy to change a culture. You just find
what’s not working,” he held up his hand, “and you change it.” He turned it palm down. “Or,
wait,” he said, affecting puzzlement. “Maybe it’s not that easy.”
“Nothing worth doing is easy,” Anika said. Somehow she was unassailable, even
fortressed with platitudes.

9

“There is one other thing I’ve noticed,” Bea said. “It’s that lots of folks here have gone
out of their way to tell me how little they think of America, how we’re all racist, gun-happy,
overeatering imperialists with no health care system.”
“And?” Anika said.
“Okay,” Bea said, her exasperation was also on its second glass of wine, “but what do
you expect me to say? What kind of conversation are we going to have? You know I’m not
that kind of American.”
“Of course not,” Anika said with feigned sympathy. “You just work for them.”
“You’re helping me with this project!” Bea said.
“What, so better to just sweep it under the carpet?” Anika said. “And never talk about it?
Isn’t that what you always accuse Germans of?”
“I haven’t accused anybody of anything,” Bea said. “That’s not my idea of a good time.”
“But these are the conversations we need to have,” Moment broke in, “to speak
uncomfortable truths.”
“You’re right,” Jonathan said, leaning forward his seat. “What’s your most painful and
humiliating memory?”
“Whatever,” Moment said, then gathered himself and went on with ungirded
righteousness. “Some of us want to have a meaningful conversation.”
He seemed to be trying on the scorn that Anika projected and wore without implicating
herself, but coming from him it sounded like the remonstration of a clumsy pedant. Or rather
it revealed that he had never been anything but.
“That’s what Anika is getting at,” Moment said and looked at her beseechingly.
Anika was frowning at the air in front of her, as though working out for herself the
transformation that he had undergone.

10

Giorgio entered the living room, licking his fingers. “We’re nearly ready to perform the
ritual,” he said. “We’re just waiting for the virgin and the sorcerer.”
The buzzer shredded the air.
“Ah,” he said, lifting his finger and leering delightedly, “that must be them. Pardon me.”
Anika rose and followed him out.
Bea excused herself to the bathroom and from within heard the apartment filling with
greetings and the thumping of boots being levered off as the other guests arrived. When she
had finished, she went to the kitchen. There, Giorgio was retelling the Aeneid in his own
image. The refugees’ flight from Troy was compressed to a dependent clause and the scene
with Dido and Aeneas in the cave swelled until it had a central role in the epic. The lovers
caroused in the torchlight that illuminated above them frescoes of athletes slick with exertion.
The queen of Carthage behaved like a horny frontierswoman welcoming an errant cowboy to
her ranch and Giorgio twisted his spoon and spoke a harlequin romance into the quivering
pot of goulash like a sorcerer hexing his cauldron while the clamor of the guests in the other
room grew as though bound to his charms. In his version, Dido joined Aeneis and traveled
with him to the peninsula, which was wholly unpopulated, the Po unforded, the hills and
fields as wild as the fifth day of creation. Then he frowned as if he had left something out.
“Everything Italy is famous for came from somewhere else, chiefly tomatoes and pasta but,
yes, also orgies. Even the twins who founded Rome were the children of a horde of gypsies.
We were America first,” he said. “Of course I mean no offense,” he bowed toward Bea, then
nodded to the girl in the hijab, “What are you smoking?”
She offered him the billowing and fragrant thing.

11

He made the face of a dying Gaul and muttered to himself, half-reaching for it and
recovering his composure. “No,” he said, “I cannot. When I smoke these things then I must
have sex afterwards. Yes, always,” he explained, “with another person.”

12


