Ana  and  Jack  met  in  freshman  year  of  college.  He  lived  one  floor  below  her  (the  boys  and  
girls  were  separated  by  floors)  and  during  Thanksgiving  break,  they  were  the  only  two  left  
in  the  small  dorm  building.  They  met  one  evening  when  Ana  was  pacing  in  her  hallway,  
toothbrush  in  her  mouth,  inspecting  the  various  flyers  and  posters  that  covered  the  walls.  
Day  three  of  break—only  three  more  days  until  everyone  was  back  on  campus  and  she  
didn’t  have  to  be  so  bored.  When  she  reached  the  end  of  the  hallway,  she  pushed  open  the  
door  and  padded  down  the  cold  cement  stairs  as  quickly  as  she  could  in  her  bare  feet.  This  
hallway  was  similar  to  her  own,  but  with  a  more  distinct  smell  of  “boy.”  Ana  turned  to  go  
back  upstairs,  her  mouth  still  full  of  toothpaste,  when  a  single  voice  drifted  down  the  
hallway.  
  
“Hello?”  
  
This  word,  from  a  boy  down  the  hall,  was  followed  with  choking  and  spit,  from  Ana.  The  
boy  appeared  about  six  doors  away  from  Ana,  wearing  old,  light-­‐wash  jeans,  socks,  and  a  
light  red  T-­‐shirt.  His  blonde  hair  stuck  up  in  a  million  different  directions.  When  he  saw  
Ana,  in  her  sweats  and  tank-­‐top,  covered  with  toothpaste,  his  eyes  widened.  
  
“Are  you  okay?”  He  had  a  thick  Irish  brogue.  “Are  you  choking?”  
  
“You  scared  me,”  Ana  said  through  a  mouthful  of  toothpaste,  putting  her  hand  over  her  
heart.  She  pulled  her  hand  away  when  she  felt  the  wet  toothpaste  that  she  just  choked  up  
and  made  a  face.  The  boy  laughed  and  pointed  to  the  bathroom,  telling  her  she  could  use  
it—he  was  the  only  guy  on  the  floor  here  right  now.  Ana  washed  herself  off  in  the  
bathroom—again,  which  had  so  much  “boyness”  about  it—and  started  back  to  her  room,  
but  stopped  herself  when  she  saw  an  open  door.  She  made  her  way  to  the  room  and  leaned  
against  the  doorway,  watching  the  boy,  who  was  now  sitting  at  his  desk.  His  laptop  was  
open  and  he  was  surrounded  by  papers.  On  his  bed  there  was  a  blanket  with  the  colors  of  
Ireland’s  flag.  
  
“You’re  Irish,”  Ana  said,  because  she  never  was  good  at  small  talk,  and  she  couldn’t  think  of  
anything  else  to  say—but  she  knew  it  was  best  to  speak,  instead  of  just  standing  in  his  
doorway  with  a  toothpaste-­‐covered  tank  top,  watching  him.  
  
“I  am.”  He  laughed.  “How  could  you  tell?”  
  
“I  have  this  weird  sixth  sense  where  I  can  sense  Irish  people  from  twenty  miles  away.”  
  
“Ah,  I  thought  it  would  be  the  accent.”  
  
“It  always  helps,  but  I’m  a  bit  more  advanced  than  that.  Not  one  of  those  girls  who  falls  
head  over  heels  for  a  guy  with  an  accent.”  
  
“Yes,  in  the  short  time  I’ve  been  here,  I’ve  noticed  that.  If  only  men  went  crazy  over  my  
accent  like  women  do.”  
  

“You’re  gay.”  
  
“Yep.”  
  
“Gay  and  Irish.”  
  
“That’s  me,”  He  burst  out  laughing.  “I  believe  that’s  all  I  had  to  write  on  my  application  to  
this  school.  Just,  you  know,  handed  in  a  sheet  of  paper  with  ‘gay  and  Irish’  written  on  it,  and  
they  sent  me  a  private  helicopter  to  take  me  here.”  
  
Ana  laughed  and  made  her  way  from  the  doorway  to  a  big  red  bean  bag  that  was  sitting  in  
the  middle  of  the  room.  She  played  with  the  hem  of  her  sweatpants,  which  was  frayed  and  
coming  apart,  while  Jack  shut  his  laptop  and  shuffled  his  papers  together  until  they  were  in  
a  neat  pile.  He  put  the  pile  at  the  upper  right  corner  of  his  desk,  and  set  his  computer  right  
next  to  it.  On  the  other  corner  of  the  desk  sat  a  coffee  mug  full  of  pens  and  pencils.  
  
“Happy  Thanksgiving,  by  the  way.”  
  
“I’m  Irish.”  
  
“I  know,  I  was  just  trying  to  get  you  to  say  it  to  me.  It  was  a  hint.”  
  
Jack  grinned.  He  had  a  small  gap  in  his  front  teeth  and  a  big  dimple  on  the  left  side  of  his  
face.  
  
“Happy  Thanksgiving…I’m  sorry,  I  don’t  know  your  name.”  
  
“Ana.  And  your  name  is  Jack.”  
  
“Is  this  your  sixth  sense  speaking?”  
  
“Yeah,”  Ana  said,  lips  turned  up  in  a  smile.  Her  eyes  flickered  to  his  door  and  then  back  at  
him.  “Some  people  read  the  nametags  on  the  doors,  but  like  I  said,  I’m  a  bit  different.”  
  
“That  must  be  handy,”  Jack  said,  pulling  his  knees  up  to  his  chest.  “I  called  my  lab  partner  
the  wrong  name  today.  I’ve  known  her  for  four  months,  and  I  could  not,  for  the  life  of  me,  
remember  if  her  name  was  Emily  or  Emma,  so  I  took  a  guess.”  
  
“Never  just  take  a  guess,”  Ana  said.  The  corners  of  her  eyes  crinkled  when  she  smiled.  
“That’s  when  you  just  refer  to  them  as  ‘buddy’  or  ‘pal.’  Or  ‘your  majesty.’  I  don’t  know,  
anything  but  just  taking  a  guess.”  
  
“I  finished  the  setup,  your  majesty,”  Jack  sad  in  a  terrible  British  accent,  gesturing  at  open  
air.  “Have  you  formed  your  hypothesis  yet?”  
  

Ana  laughed,  but  more  at  his  fake  accent  than  anything  else.  Jack’s  face  turned  rosy  pink  
but  he  looked  pleased  with  himself.  They  talked  about  the  people  they’ve  met  and  whose  
names  they’ve  forgotten.  Ana  asked  Jack  about  his  lab—biochemistry  was  his  major,  she  
found  out—and  if  he  liked  his  classes  here  in  the  US.  Jack  asked  Ana  about  her  classes  and  
what  she  wanted  to  do  after  college—Ana  answered  by  shaking  her  head  and  waving  her  
hands,  saying  ‘no  thank  you,  we  don’t  talk  about  the  future  right  now.’  Ana  talked,  and  she  
made  Jack  laugh.  Jack  talked,  and  smiled  with  that  big  gap  in  his  teeth.  It  was  simple  and  
sweet  and  they  both  were  wearing  socks  with  holes  in  them.    
  
  
  
The  day  after  they  met,  Jack  showed  up  at  Ana’s  door,  asking  if  she  wanted  to  grab  takeout  
with  him.  They  walked  to  a  pizza  place  a  few  blocks  away,  Ana  talking  excitedly  with  her  
hands  the  whole  time.  She  flailed  a  lot,  always  had.  She  accidentally  hit  Jack  on  the  arm  and  
came  close  to  his  chin  one  time,  but  by  the  time  they  reached  their  destination,  he  had  
learned  to  avoid  it.  Her  flailing  and  her  talking  and  her  jokes  were  strange  and  funny  and  
Jack  loved  every  second  of  it.  He  had  only  been  in  the  US  for  a  few  months,  and  hadn’t  found  
anyone  yet  who  made  him  feel  like  Ana  did.  Until  this,  it  was  all  about  small  talk  and  polite  
laughter.  Ana  had  him  in  stitches  and  it  was  the  only  second  day  they  spent  together.  She  
had  said,  “you’re  Irish  and  gay,”  but  she  didn’t  expect  him  to  fall  directly  under  those  
categories.  He  wanted  to  tell  her  how  relieved  he  was  that  he  met  her,  how  happy  he  was  
that  she  came  onto  his  floor  yesterday  and  spit  toothpaste  everywhere.  But,  again,  it  was  
only  their  second  day  together,  and  he  didn’t  want  to  be  excessive.  
  
Ana  was  filled  with  a  sense  of  dread  like  no  other  when  she  smacked  Jack  in  the  face.  She  
knew  she  was  twitchy,  she  knew  she  flailed  around  a  lot,  and  she  knew  it  was  weird.  She  
wasn’t  the  most  popular  in  the  past,  and  was  often  labeled  “the  weird  one.”  And  now  here  
she  was,  smacking  the  nice  gay  Irish  boy  in  the  face  while  talking  about  her  favorite  graphic  
novel.  But,  to  her  relief,  Jack  didn’t  even  say  anything.  He  listened  to  her  talk,  laughed  at  her  
jokes,  no  matter  how  many  times  she  had  been  told  her  sense  of  humor  was  not  too  normal,  
and  by  the  end,  she  had  controlled  her  flailing  a  bit  and  stopped  accidentally  hitting  him.  
Jack  chimed  in  with  stories  and  opinions  of  his  own,  which  Ana  tended  to  vehemently  agree  
with.  He  seemed  so  genuine—Ana  met  lots  of  men  (and  women)  in  her  life  who  are  kind,  
but  once  you  dig  beneath  the  surface,  the  kindness  fades  and  it  turned  out  the  generosity  
was  really  just  an  act.  But  Jack  was  clear.  There  was  no  other  word  for  it.  When  he  listened,  
it  was  clear—his  eyes  and  ears  were  only  for  the  one  who  was  talking.  When  he  talked,  he  
was  clear—his  stories  were  not  fabricated,  but  they  were  still  good  and  funny  and  
interesting.  He  was  clear  right  to  his  bright  blue  eyes—clear  like  a  little  peaceful  pond,  
never  touched  by  pollution,  so  that  you  could  easily  see  all  the  pebbles  and  stones  and  the  
little  fish  swimming  around  in  it.    
  
A  day  later,  students  started  coming  back  to  campus,  and  the  dorms  were  buzzing  again.  
Jack  and  Ana  didn’t  hang  out  again  until  the  end  of  the  next  week,  when  they  ran  into  one  
another  on  campus  and  grabbed  coffee  before  their  next  class.  There  was  a  coffee  kiosk  
next  to  the  science  buildings  that  was  run  by  a  man  with  dreadlocks  and  countless  

piercings.  Ana  was  obsessed  with  him.  Before  they  knew  it,  Thursday  afternoon  coffee  
officially  became  a  thing,  and  when  Jack’s  biochemistry  lab  took  too  long  one  time  and  he  
wasn’t  able  to  meet  Ana,  he  looked  at  his  phone  and  was  met  with  four  loud  text  messages  
(if  text  messages  could  be  loud).  He  couldn’t  help  but  laugh  at  her  use  of  caps  lock,  
exclamation  points,  and  creative  threats  she  promised  if  he  didn’t  show  up  to  get  his  small  
black  coffee.  He  sent  an  apology  text  and  poked  his  head  in  her  room  when  he  got  back  to  
the  dorms.  Ana  threw  a  shoe  at  him.  Jack  got  out  his  laptop  and  started  in  on  his  theology  
homework  while  Ana  sat  at  her  desk  and  worked  on  calculus.  They  listened  to  a  Bruce  
Springsteen  album.  
  
  
This  new  friendship  of  theirs  carried  them  through  December,  the  long,  snowy,  stressful  
month  of  final  exams.  Jack  went  home  to  Ireland  for  Christmas,  and  Ana  went  back  to  New  
Jersey.  After  winter  break,  their  first  day  back  on  campus,  they  got  Chinese  takeout  and  
watched  almost  an  entire  season  of  Orange  is  the  New  Black.  And  after  that,  it  became  
unofficially  official.  Ana  stopped  being  Ana,  and  Jack  stopped  being  Jack.  To  Ana’s  floor  
mates  and  friends,  she  became  Ana-­‐and-­‐Jack.  To  Jack’s  floor  mates  and  friends,  he  became  
Jack-­‐and-­‐Ana.  
  
Throughout  the  rest  of  freshman  year,  they  continued  to  get  coffee  and  eat  food  and  watch  
movies  and  learn  more  about  one  another.  It  turned  out  that  Jack’s  dimple  wasn’t  actually  a  
dimple—when  he  was  five-­‐years-­‐old,  he  fell  off  the  monkey  bars  and  dented  his  left  cheek,  
and  that’s  why  the  dimple  was  bigger  and  higher  up  on  his  face  than  usual.  It  turned  out  
that  Jack  didn’t  like  biochemistry  at  all,  and  it  turned  out  that  Ana  liked  psychology  quite  a  
bit,  and  was  good  at  it.  There  were  times  Ana  made  Jack  laugh  so  hard  that  his  face  turned  
bright  as  a  tomato  and  his  sides  hurt,  mostly  when  she  did  impressions,  accents,  and  animal  
noises.  She  was  horrible  at  them.  There  were  times  Jack  astounded  Ana  with  his  ability  to  
speak  fluently  in  movie  quotes  and  useless  facts.  Whenever  Ana  wondered  something  
aloud,  Jack  had  the  answer  for  her.  He  knew  a  little  bit  about  everything.  
  
“You  say  the  same  thing  about  your  mum,”  Jack  said  one  morning  over  homemade  waffles.  
They  sat  in  the  small  kitchen  each  floor  had,  Jack  sitting  in  one  of  the  hard  wooden  chairs  
with  his  perfect  posture,  as  usual,  and  Ana  leaning  against  the  oven,  eating  more  whipped  
cream  and  syrup  than  waffle.  
  
“I  say  what  about  my  mom?”  
  
“You  say  your  mum  knows  a  little  bit  about  everything.”  
  
“Yup,  she  does.  You  two  should  have  a  trivia  contest  sometime.”  
  
Jack  laughed  and  pushed  around  a  tiny  square  of  waffle  in  a  pool  of  syrup.  
  
“Do  you  like  that  about  your  mum?”  
  

“What  do  you  mean?”  
  
“You  always  say  that  you  like  that  I’m  a  little  pocket  encyclopedia  for  you.  If  your  mum  is  
the  same  way,  how  come  you  only  complain  about  her?”  
  
Ana  frowned  at  this  and  became  transfixed  on  her  plate,  now  coated  with  whipped  cream.  
  
“I  don’t  only  complain  about  her.”  
  
“You  complain  about  her  a  lot.”  
  
“We’re  just…really  different  people.  She  gets  on  my  nerves  sometimes.”  
  
“Yeah,  I  guess  so.”  
  
Ana  put  down  her  plate  and  crossed  her  arms.  
  
“What  does  that  mean?”  
  
“I  just…I  feel  like  you  should  like  her  more.”  
  
Ana  barked  out  a  laugh,  but  it  was  a  sarcastic  one,  a  harsh  one.  It  wasn’t  really  a  laugh  at  all.  
  
“I’m  sorry  I  don’t  get  along  with  my  mom?  I’m  not  quite  sure  what  to  say  to  that,  Jack  
Attack.”  
  
She  only  called  him  Jack  Attack  when  she  was  happy  with  him  or  annoyed  with  him.  
  
“Forget  I  said  anything.”  
  
“Oh,  okay.  We’re  doing  this  again.  Got  it.”  
  
“Doing  what?”  
  
“That  thing,  where  you  pick  a  fight,  and  then  back  off  and  act  like  I’m  the  irrational  one  
when  I  get  upset.”  
  
“I  didn’t  want  to  pick  a  fight,  it’s  just  that  sometimes  you  complain  a  lot,  and  it  can  be  
frustrating.”  
  
“Yeah,  I’m  the  frustrating  one.”  
  
And,  like  any  good  friendship,  they  finished  the  fight  with  annoyance  and  bitterness  and  a  
stubborn  belief  that  they  were  right  and  the  other  was  wrong.  And,  like  any  good  
friendship,  one  bought  the  other  one  coffee  the  next  day,  and  the  other  one  showed  a  funny  
YouTube  video  they  found  earlier  that  day.  That  was  Ana  and  Jack’s  routine,  at  least.  Their  

fights  were  never  big.  There  was  never  a  need  for  an  official  apology.  Jack  got  annoyed  at  
Ana  for  being  so  pessimistic,  which  could  sometimes  be  blunt  and  hilarious,  but  not  always.  
And  Ana  got  annoyed  at  Jack  for  his  snarky,  catty  comments,  which  could  sometimes  very  
clever,  but  also  annoying.  The  little  frustrating  imperfections  were  nothing  but  bumps  in  
the  road  of  friendship.  And  at  the  end  of  the  day,  Ana  and  Jack  were  just  happy  that  they  
had  decided  to  go  down  that  road  in  the  first  place.  
  
  
Before  they  knew  it,  freshman  year  was  over.  The  night  before  Jack  went  back  to  Ireland  
and  Ana  went  back  to  New  Jersey,  they  both  sat  on  the  floor  of  Jack’s  dorm  room,  which  
was  freshly  vacuumed  and  free  of  all  the  little  crumbs  and  scraps  of  paper  that  the  school  
year  brought.  Ana  asked  Jack  if  he  was  going  to  stay  in  the  US  full  time—if  he  was  going  to  
find  a  job  there  and  start  a  family  there.  Jack  said  yes,  of  course,  because  ever  since  he  was  
little  he  dreamed  of  living  in  America  with  his  husband  and  lots  of  cats.  Ana  mocked  him,  of  
course,  but  she  could  picture  it  just  as  much  as  he  could.  Jack  asked  Ana  if  she  was  ever  
going  to  move  back  to  New  Jersey,  but  she  said  no,  she  needed  to  be  far  away  from  her  
parents—it  was  the  only  way  they  got  along.  It  was  one  of  those  nights  perfect  for  dramatic  
secrets  and  stories  never  before  told.  Ana  sat  with  her  legs  stretched  out  in  front  of  her,  
pajama  shorts  bunched  up  around  her  thighs,  and  her  pointer  finger  drawing  circles  and  
loops  on  her  bare  skin  as  she  talked.  Jack  leaned  against  his  bedpost,  grinning  his  gappy  
grin  and  picking  at  the  carpet  occasionally.  The  next  morning,  they  ate  dry  cereal  and  
hugged  before  Ana’s  cab  arrived  and  Jack  left  for  the  airport.  
  
  
Sophomore  year,  Ana  and  Jack  generally  lived  together.  They  lived  on  the  same  dorm  floor  
in  rooms  right  across  the  hall  from  one  another.  Half  of  Jack’s  DVDs  were  in  Ana’s  room,  as  
he  wanted  her  to  improve  her  knowledge  of  movies,  and  half  of  Ana’s  food  supply  was  in  
Jack’s  room,  which  she  put  there  to  try  and  stop  herself  from  eating  whenever  she  got  
bored.  And  when  Ana’s  roommate  brought  a  new  guy  to  spend  the  night  (which  was  quite  
often),  Ana  slept  in  Jack’s  old  red  bean  bag,  which  she  had  come  to  love  during  freshman  
year  almost  as  much  as  she  loved  Jack.  They  fell  into  their  old  routine  easily  during  their  
first  week  of  school.  On  a  hot  day  in  early  September,  they  took  a  trip  to  the  bookstore  
together,  saying  hello  to  every  old  acquaintance  they  passed—Jack-­‐and-­‐Ana,  Ana-­‐and-­‐Jack  
once  again.    Ana  had  officially  picked  psychology  as  her  major,  a  major  that  said,  “I  know  for  
a  fact  that  I  have  no  idea  what  I  want  to  do  in  my  life.”  She  flipped  through  her  psychology  
books  for  the  semester  while  Jack  picked  up  his  biology  books,  as  he  had  recently  switched  
majors  from  organic  chemistry  to  biochemistry.  After  they  bought  their  textbooks,  they  got  
coffee  from  their  usual  kiosk,  and  Ana  enthusiastically  high-­‐fived  her  favorite  dreadlocked  
coffee  worker.  There  was  a  new  boy  working  there  who  looked  to  be  about  their  age,  who  
Ana  talked  about  all  the  way  back  to  the  dorms.  
  
“He  was  cute,”  Ana  said.  
  
“Why  didn’t  you  ask  for  his  number,  then?”  
  

“If  I  was  a  gay  male,  I  would.  More  specifically,  if  I  was  a  gay  Irish  male,  I  would.”  
  
“What?  He  wasn’t  gay.”  
  
“Are  you  kidding?  He  couldn’t  stop  staring  at  you.”  
  
And  there  was  that  gappy  smile  Ana  hadn’t  seen  for  three  months.  
  
“He  was  not  staring  at  me.”  
  
“He  was.  He  was  also  fantasizing  about  bending  you  over  that  coffee  kiosk.”  
  
“Ana!”  
  
“I  told  you,  I  have  a  sixth  sense!  I  know  these  things!”  
  
Jack  laughed.  It  was  nice  to  hear  Ana  say  these  things  again.  His  parents  didn’t  have  a  
problem  with  his  sexuality,  but  they  were  always  slightly  uncomfortable  with  it.  They  
didn’t  like  talking  about  it,  and  they  never  asked  Jack  if  he  met  anyone  at  school.  Ana  was  
the  complete  opposite.  Any  time  the  two  of  them  passed  an  attractive  man  about  their  age,  
Jack  prepared  himself  for  a  smack  on  the  arm.  When  a  cashier  or  deliveryman  smiled  at  
Jack,  he  knew  that  within  seconds,  Ana  would  be  pressing  into  his  side  and  whisper  “Do  it,”  
or,  “Give  him  them  digits,  son,”  or  anything  else  equally  embarrassing.  And  to  Jack,  the  best  
part  of  it  was  that  Ana  didn’t  do  this  because  Jack  was  gay  and  she  was  poking  fun  at  him.  
No,  she  was  just  being  Ana.  She  was  never  good  with  guys.  She  didn’t  understand  how  to  
flirt.  Her  flailing  increased  by  about  30%  whenever  she  was  with  a  guy.  But  she  loved  
them—and  that  was  the  worst  part.  She  never  stopped  talking  about  boys—whether  it  was  
a  cute  guy  in  her  class  or  an  up-­‐and-­‐coming  movie  star,  Ana  would  talk  about  him  for  what  
seemed  like  years  while  Jack  nodded  along,  busily  typing  away  on  his  laptop.  And  she  
couldn’t  even  speak  to  one  without  accidentally  spitting  out  her  gum.  
  
As  it  turns  out,  the  new  guy  at  the  coffee  kiosk  was  gay,  and  he  did  think  Jack  was  cute.  The  
coffee  guy—Ryan—wrote  his  number  on  Jack’s  coffee  cup  before  he  gave  it  to  him.  Jack  
grinned  throughout  class  and  all  the  way  back  to  the  dorms.  The  first  door  he  opened  was  
not  the  one  to  his  room,  but  to  Ana’s.  He  strode  across  the  room  and  dropped  his  empty  
coffee  cup  with  the  number  on  it  in  her  lap,  raising  his  arms  and  jogging  small  circles  
around  her  room.  Ana  laughed  and  called  him  a  loser.  Jack  collapsed  on  the  floor  and  Ana  
rolled  the  cup  back  to  him.  Jack  tossed  the  cup  from  hand  to  hand  as  he  babbled,  laughing  at  
his  own  jokes,  like  he  usually  did  when  he  got  excited.  He  was  so  intent  on  telling  Ana  all  
about  it  that  he  completely  forgot  to  even  think  of  texting  Ryan  until  a  few  hours  later.  
  
Ana  had  no  idea  that  joking  about  the  coffee  kiosk  guy  would  turn  into  reality.  After  a  few  
dates,  Jack  fell  head  over  heels,  and  so  did  Ryan.  Ana  didn’t  complain,  because  she  got  free  
coffee  from  this  relationship.  Ryan  was  funny  and  outgoing  and  intelligent  in  so  many  ways.  
Not  in  the  same  ways  Jack  was—Ryan  skipped  classes  way  more  often  and  did  his  

homework  only  when  absolutely  necessary.  But  in  Ana’s  opinion,  that  was  good  for  Jack.  It  
loosened  him  up.  
  
“You  never  nag  him  about  not  studying,”  Ana  said  one  day  while  Ryan  was  sleeping  on  the  
floor  and  Jack  was  writing  an  essay.  “I’ll  gladly  have  sex  with  you  if  that’s  what  it  takes  for  
you  to  stop  your  Jack-­‐nags.”  Jack  just  put  on  his  headphones  and  flipped  her  off.  Yeah,  Ryan  
was  good  for  him.  
  
Before  they  knew  it,  Ana,  Jack,  and  Ryan  were  trudging  through  a  foot  of  snow,  hats  and  
scarves  covering  everything  but  their  eyes,  to  the  convenience  store.  Fall  had  flown  by,  the  
leaves  falling  off  the  trees  in  a  day,  and  the  first  flakes  falling  from  the  sky  the  next.  There  
was  so  much  falling  involved  from  the  transition  from  fall  to  winter.  While  Ana  and  Jack  
bickered  over  what  kind  of  ice  cream  they  wanted,  Ryan  dragged  his  feet  around  the  store,  
waiting  for  them  to  finish.  He  returned  to  them  holding  a  flyer  for  a  Christmas  party  that  
was  going  to  be  held  on  campus.  Neither  Ana  nor  Jack  was  enthused  about  it,  but  after  
about  an  hour  and  a  half  of  Ryan  whining  about  wanting  to  go,  Jack  agreed.  Ana  said  she  
would  only  go  if  there  was  a  tall,  dark,  and  handsome  stranger  to  go  with  her.  Ryan  
laughed,  but  Jack  met  her  fake  cheeriness  with  a  sympathetic  look.  He  knew  she  had  been  
feeling  a  bit  lonely  in  the  past  few  months.  Of  course  he  didn’t  abandon  her  for  Ryan—he  
would  never  dream  of  it.  But  still,  Ana  watched  as  he  went  out  on  dates,  got  surprised  with  
takeout  Chinese  food  from  Ryan,  and  other  couple-­‐y  things  that  happened  more  than  Jack  
ever  thought  they  would  with  him.  Jack  was  in  love,  but  Ana  was  lonely,  and  apparently  
Jack-­‐and-­‐Ana  wasn’t  as  good  when  it  was  like  that.  
  
They  all  went  to  the  party,  though,  and  Ana  put  on  a  happy  face  and  a  nice  skirt.  Ten  
minutes  after  they  got  there,  a  boy  approached  Ana  and  started  talking  to  her.  Ana  shooed  
Jack  and  Ryan  away  as  subtly  as  she  could  so  she  could  keep  talking  to  the  boy.  They  talked  
for  the  entire  night,  and  whenever  Jack  looked  at  Ana  from  across  the  room,  she  was  
laughing  and  playing  with  one  of  her  curls.  When  it  was  time  to  leave,  Ana  said  goodbye  to  
Jack  and  Ryan,  and  this  new  boy  promised  to  walk  Ana  home.  Jack  was  excited  for  his  
friend,  already  envisioning  the  double  dates  that  they  could  all  go  on.  But  later  that  night,  
Jack  was  awoken  by  a  knock  on  his  door,  and  opened  the  door  to  find  Ana  there,  still  in  her  
pretty  skirt  and  her  black  boots.  The  boy  had  walked  her  home,  but  expected  something  
more  than  a  kiss  at  the  front  door  of  the  building.  He  got  too  rough  with  Ana  and  she  fell  
down  on  the  steps  leading  up  to  the  dorm,  and  he  ran.  Ana  turned  around  to  show  Jack  
where  she  fell,  and  there  was  a  big,  wet,  muddy  spot  on  the  back  of  her  brand  new  skirt  that  
she  was  so  excited  about.  She  started  to  cry  and  Jack  told  Ryan  to  leave  for  the  rest  of  the  
night,  and  Ryan  did,  and  then  it  was  just  Jack-­‐and-­‐Ana.  Ana  could  never  get  the  skirt  to  look  
the  same  as  it  did.  
  
After  that,  Ana  went  home  for  Christmas  break  a  week  early.  She  took  her  two  final  exams  
early,  unable  to  wait,  needing  her  mom.  Jack  felt  guilty  throughout  vacation,  knowing  that  
he  shouldn’t  have  let  a  stranger  walk  Ana  home.  Ana  assured  Jack  that  he  didn’t  need  to  feel  
guilty,  but  he  did.  They  didn’t  talk  much  at  all  during  the  two  weeks  they  were  separated.  
4000  miles  apart  from  one  another,  they  both  looked  at  their  Christmas  trees—Jack’s  was  

decorated  with  tiny  gold  blinking  lights,  and  Ana’s  with  muted  purple  lights—and  beat  
themselves  up  for  things  that  weren’t  their  fault.  
  
When  they  came  back  to  school  in  January,  Ana  sat  in  Jack’s  red  bean  bag  chair  and  Jack  sat  
at  his  desk  and  they  talked  about  nothing  and  everything,  and  from  then  on,  it  was  better.  
The  spring  was  rather  uneventful.  Their  classes  got  more  difficult,  and  Ana  got  a  job  as  a  
waitress  at  a  local  pizza  place.  During  the  week,  they  studied  together,  taking  the  small  
comfort  they  could  get  from  being  in  the  same  room.  When  the  weekends  came  around,  
they  were  both  exhausted,  and  although  they  tried  to  go  out  and  have  fun,  they  usually  
ended  up  falling  asleep  before  midnight  with  the  TV  on  and  empty  bowls  of  cereal  on  the  
coffee  table.  Spring  was  over  in  the  blink  of  an  eye,  and  suddenly  Ana  was  saying  goodbye  
to  Jack  at  the  curb  outside  their  building,  waiting  for  his  cab  to  take  him  to  the  airport.  Ryan  
had  made  plans  to  visit  Jack  in  Dublin  during  the  summer,  and  Ana  tried  her  best  to  hide  
her  jealousy.  She  didn’t  have  the  money,  and  neither  did  her  parents,  to  go  to  Ireland.  She  
worried  that  Jack  would  forget  all  about  her  as  he  took  Ryan  to  pubs  and  they  walked  along  
grassy  hills,  too  perfect  together  to  need  anyone  else.  
  
Jack  hugged  Ana  extra  tightly  as  the  cab  approached,  and  when  he  pulled  away,  his  eyes  
were  wet,  and  neither  of  them  really  knew  why.  
  
  
It  would  be  nine  full  months  before  Ana  and  Jack  saw  one  another  again.  They’d  both  
applied  and  been  accepted  to  study  abroad  programs—Jack  would  be  spending  the  year  in  
Haiti,  and  Ana  in  London.    
  
“Do  your  British  accent  one  more  time,”  Ana  said  to  Jack,  holding  the  phone  between  her  
ear  and  shoulder  as  she  folded  shirts  and  jeans  to  pack.  It  was  late  August.  Her  flight  left  the  
next  day,  and  Jack’s  left  the  next  week.  
  
“No,  you’re  just  going  to  laugh  at  me.”  
  
“I’m  going  to  laugh  with  you.”  
  
“No.”  
  
“Please?  I  need  to  get  acclimated  to  this  accent.  I’ll  be  around  it  for  nine  months.  When  I  
come  back,  I’ll  be  just  as  foreign  as  you.”  
  
Jack  laughed,  like  he  always  did  when  Ana  called  him  a  foreigner.  Sometimes  she  absently  
slipped  into  his  Irish  accent  when  she  talked  to  him.  Jack  never  pointed  it  out.  
  
Jack  talked  to  Ana  for  a  couple  hours  before  saying  goodbye  and  wishing  her  a  good  flight.  
It  was  easy  to  say  goodbye,  this  time.  They  were  so  used  to  it  by  now,  and  they  would  be  
able  to  keep  in  touch  easily  throughout  the  year.  Goodbyes  were  never  so  bad  as  long  as  
they  weren’t  final.  Jack  would  be  saying  goodbye  to  Ryan  next  week,  and  they’d  decided  to  

stay  together  even  while  Jack  was  abroad.  Ana  had  expressed  her  doubt  at  that,  which  led  
to  a  small  fight  and  a  week  of  passive-­‐aggressive  text  messages,  but  Jack  wasn’t  ready  to  let  
Ryan  go  yet.  It  would  only  be  nine  months,  after  all.  
  
  
In  early  December,  Ana  got  a  phone  call  during  a  class,  and  excused  herself  so  she  could  
take  it.  She  never  usually  answered  calls  or  texts  during  classes,  but  somehow  she  knew  to  
answer  this  one.  She  sat  on  a  bench  just  outside  and  heard  Jack’s  voice  for  the  first  time  in  
three  months.  
  
“We  broke  up,”  He  was  saying,  and  his  voice  was  tight  and  his  words  were  quick—like  he  
was  trying  to  get  everything  out  before  he  started  to  cry.  
  
“Oh,  no,”  Ana  said,  because  what  else  can  you  say  when  your  best  friend  breaks  up  with  his  
boyfriend  of  a  year  and  three  months?  She’d  never  had  a  relationship  like  that,  and  she  
wondered  if  Ryan  and  Jack  would  break  up  while  Jack  was  in  Haiti,  but  she  knew  enough  to  
be  sad  for  him.  And  she  was.  They  were  still  Jack-­‐and-­‐Ana,  so  when  Jack  was  sad,  Ana  was  
sad.  The  call  ended  up  costing  about  200  dollars.  All  sadness  aside,  both  Jack  and  Ana  
agreed  that  it  was  nice  to  hear  each  other’s  voices  again.  Ana  struggled  through  her  best  
Christopher  Walken  impression,  and  Jack  laughed  so  hard  that  he  went  completely  silent,  
so  they  both  knew  that  everything  was  going  to  be  okay.  Throughout  the  next  five  months,  
whenever  they  missed  one  another,  they  thought  about  Christopher  Walken.  
  
Although,  most  of  the  time,  they  were  much  too  busy  to  realize  that  they  missed  each  other.  
  
  
Senior  year  of  college,  they  lived  in  an  apartment  together,  with  one  other  boy  and  one  
other  girl  who  they’d  met  during  the  second  semester  of  their  sophomore  year.  When  
others  asked  if  it  would  be  awkward,  or  there  would  be  too  much  drama  living  with  two  
boys  and  two  girls,  all  four  of  them  laughed.  Jack  was  gay,  and  so  was  the  other  girl  in  the  
apartment,  and  the  other  boy  was  much  more  interested  in  getting  into  medical  school  than  
in  any  girl  who  crossed  his  path.  They  lived  in  as  much  peace  as  an  apartment  made  for  
four  people  could  provide.  
  
Their  senior  year  was  filled  with  as  much  confusion  and  frustration  as  their  freshman  year.  
In  some  ways,  they  were  kings  and  queens,  and  in  other  ways,  they  were  nothings.  Jack  
wondered  what  he  was  going  to  do  with  the  biochemistry  major  that  he  hated.  Ana  
wondered  why  the  world  didn’t  seem  to  need  psychologists.  Jack  tried  to  reassure  her  and  
failed  when  he  said  that  the  world  needs  psychologists,  but  the  world  doesn’t  really  need  
twenty-­‐two-­‐year-­‐old  psychologists.  Ana  stopped  worrying  just  long  enough  to  laugh,  Jack’s  
ever-­‐failing  reassurances  making  her  feel  light  for  the  first  time  in  weeks.  
  
They  spent  that  Christmas  together,  at  Ana’s  house.  By  now,  Jack  had  gotten  to  know  Ana’s  
parents  well,  since  whenever  they  visited  Ana  at  school,  that  meant  that  they  visited  Jack.  
Ana  saved  enough  money  so  that  during  spring  break,  she  accompanied  Jack  back  to  

Ireland.  They  became  children  again  in  an  instant,  forgetting  to  worry  about  the  future  and  
the  stress  that  comes  with  it.  That  week  in  Ireland  was  the  best  week  of  both  of  their  lives.  
At  school,  they  got  coffee  together  every  day  at  their  kiosk,  and  sat  on  their  balcony,  no  
matter  how  cold  it  got.  Jack  didn’t  date  anyone  that  year,  but  Ana,  surprisingly,  found  
herself  to  be  going  on  dates  every  other  week.  Nothing  changed  about  her,  but  maybe  now  
because  she  was  about  to  graduate,  the  guys  realized  that  they  needed  to  take  their  chance  
while  they  could.  Jack  liked  seeing  Ana  go  on  dates,  but  couldn’t  help  feeling  jealous,  
remembering  how  good  it  was  when  he  had  Ryan.  
  
Still,  though,  Ana  was  primarily  Jack’s,  and  Jack  was  Ana’s.  As  the  weather  got  warmer,  
Jack-­‐and-­‐Ana  sat  on  the  hill  that  overlooked  the  campus.  They  always  took  their  laptops,  a  
blanket  to  sit  on,  and  a  jar  of  mixed  nuts.  They  looked  for  jobs  and  internships  as  the  
pressure  of  graduation  drew  closer.  Two  weeks  before  graduating,  Jack  got  a  call  from  his  
mother—her  best  friend  was  looking  to  hire  a  new  intern  at  the  office  she  worked  in,  and  it  
paid  enough,  but  would  give  Jack  enough  time  to  look  for  a  permanent  job.  Ana  listened  to  
the  conversation  as  Jack  talked,  lazily  smoothing  the  blankets  on  his  bed  as  he  paced,  phone  
pressed  to  his  ear.  He  hung  up  and  Ana  asked  about  it,  not  trying  to  hide  the  fact  that  she’d  
already  heard  everything.  
  
“Are  you  going  to  take  it?”  
  
“It’s  back  at  home,”  Jack  said,  thinking.  “I  mean,  it  would  be  nice  to  spend  some  time  with  
my  parents  again.  And  I  can’t  pay  for  living  on  my  own  yet,  you  know?”  
  
“Yeah,”  Ana  said  absent-­‐mindedly,  flopping  back  down  on  Jack’s  bed.  “And  at  least  you  get  
paid.  My  friend  Vanessa—I  told  you  about  her,  right?  The  one  from  my  French  class?”  
  
“Yeah,  with  the  red  hair?”  
  
“Yeah.  She  just  got  an  internship,  and  it’s  full-­‐time,  and  it  doesn’t  even  pay.  And  Ross  has  
one  of  those,  too.”  
  
“So  does  my  lab  partner.  It  sucks.”  
  
“Yeah.”  
  
They  were  quiet  for  a  moment,  with  only  the  sound  of  the  TV  filling  the  silence.  They  were  
watching  the  movie  Fargo—the  only  movie  that  they  both  were  always  in  the  mood  for.  
When  they  fought  over  movies,  or  when  they  weren’t  in  the  mood  for  anything,  they’d  
watch  Fargo.  Jack  resumed  his  spot  next  to  Ana  on  the  bed  and  they  watched  the  screen  for  
a  few  minutes.  Ana  woke  up  three  hours  later,  unaware  she  was  even  tired,  and  Jack  was  
sleeping  next  to  her.  Ana-­‐and-­‐Jack  must  have  been  exhausted.  
  
“Are  you  ready  to  go  back  home?”  Jack  asked  a  week  later,  and  Ana  shrugged  with  her  
whole  body.  They  sat  on  top  of  the  hill,  their  laptops  cast  aside.  There  were  jobs  to  apply  
for,  but  the  near  future  was  figured  out,  and  that’s  all  that  really  matters  in  the  life  of  a  22-­‐

year-­‐old.  Ana  could  look  for  jobs  later,  in  the  kitchen  of  her  home,  while  her  parents  chatted  
in  the  family  room.  That  seemed  like  a  good  enough  future  for  now.  
  
“Like  you  said,  I’m  excited  to  see  my  parents  again.  Re-­‐live  my  childhood,  and  all  that  jazz.  
And  it  won’t  be  too  long,  you  know?  Just  until  I  find  a  job.”  
  
“You’ll  find  one,”  Jack  said.  “I  am  60%  sure  that  you  will  find  a  job  by  the  time  you’re  at  least  
forty.”  
  
“Maybe,”  Ana  laughed.  “Or  maybe  I’ll  just  live  in  my  parents’  basement  for  the  rest  of  my  
life.”  
  
“Nah,  your  mum  would  kick  you  out  far  before  that  ever  happens.”  
  
“Hey,  asshole,  she  loves  me  now!  She  has  matured  over  the  years  and  has  learned  to  love  
me.”  
  
“Yeah,  I’m  sure  it’s  her.  Not  like  her  little  brat  matured  or  anything.”  
  
“Right.”  
  
Ana  and  Jack  laughed  harder  than  they  needed  to.  Ana  leaned  back  on  her  elbows  and  
wiggled  her  toes,  which  Jack  had  recently  painted  pink.  “For  being  so  pretty  and  gay,  you’re  
so  terrible  at  this,”  Ana  had  once  said,  and  Jack  was  shaking  with  laughter  as  he  accidentally  
painted  her  entire  little  toe  instead  of  just  the  nail.  She  let  him  paint  them  again  over  the  
weekend,  just  because.  Jack  lay  down  next  to  Ana.  It  was  finally  warm  outside,  but  the  grass  
was  cool  to  the  touch.  It  reminded  Jack  of  one  spring  evening  he  and  Ana  got  ice  cream  at  
an  old-­‐fashioned  shop,  and  she  got  a  little  bit  too  excited  by  all  the  flavors,  ate  everything,  
and  then  threw  up  an  hour  later.  Jack  felt  bad  for  laughing  so  hard,  but  then  again,  it  wasn’t  
the  first  time  that  happened.  
  
  
“We  should  pack,”  Ana  finally  said,  after  an  hour.  Her  head  was  resting  on  Jack’s  
chest,  and  she  was  lining  his  stomach  with  almonds  and  walnuts,  her  two  least  favorite  
nuts,  from  the  jar.  Jack  hummed  in  agreement,  thinking  of  all  he  had  to  pack  for  Ireland.  
He’d  taken  the  job  reluctantly,  but  knew  that  it  was  his  best  option.  There  would  always  be  
other  jobs—one,  even,  that  he  was  looking  at  in  the  US,  only  a  few  hours  away  from  Ana.  He  
didn’t  like  thinking  about  leaving  Ana.  Jack  was  always  the  sentimental  one—something  
Ana  constantly  teased  him  about.  He  cried  at  the  drop  of  the  hat,  and  graduation  week  was  
not  easy  for  him.  He  doubted  it  was  easy  for  Ana,  either,  but  she  was  better  at  masking  it.  
Besides,  they  both  figured  that  if  they  could  make  it  through  four  years  of  exhaustion  and  
stress  together,  they  could  make  it  through  anything.  
  
  
“What  the  hell,”  Jack  giggled,  hoisting  himself  onto  his  elbows.  Ana  had  just  begun  
stuffing  handfuls  of  almonds  into  his  pockets.  She  was  laughing.  Jack  sat  up,  and  nuts  
tumbled  off  his  chest  and  stomach.  
  

  
“It’s  fine.  You  like  almonds,  anyways.”  
  
  
“No,  I  don’t.”  
  
  
“What?”  
  
  
“We’ve  literally  had  this  conversation  eight  times  before.”  
  
  
“Oh,  yeah.”  
  
  
Jack  grinned  and  brushed  himself  off.  Ana  held  Jack’s  hand  and  Jack  held  both  their  
hands  in  his  giant  pocket,  and  they  talked  about  Game  of  Thrones  on  their  way  home.  Ana  
made  Jack  promise  that  he  finished  at  least  half  his  packing  before  they  watched  only  one  
episode  that  night.  
  
He  finished  a  quarter  of  his  packing,  and  they  watched  five  episodes.  
  
  
Graduation  was  surprisingly  mundane.  A  guest  speaker  came  and  talked  for  a  long  time.  
The  faces  in  the  graduating  class  were  blank,  for  the  most  part.  Parents  struggled  to  pick  
their  kids  out  of  the  crowd.  Little  brothers  and  sisters  whined  about  how  cramped  it  was.  
All  in  all,  it  wasn’t  much  of  an  event.  
  
Ana,  Jack,  Ana’s  parents,  and  Jack’s  parents  all  ate  dinner  together  afterwards.  It  was  fun,  
but  uneventful.  Jack  and  Ana  stuffed  themselves  with  sushi  and  listened  to  their  families  
talk  for  a  long  time  before  going  outside  for  some  fresh  air.  Ana  reminded  Jack  not  to  be  
emotional,  because  it  wasn’t  the  last  time  they’d  be  seeing  each  other  yet—that  would  
come  next  Saturday,  when  Ana  drove  Jack  to  the  airport.  Jack  agreed  not  to  be  emotional,  
and  it  was,  for  the  most  part,  easy.  He  was  too  worn-­‐out  to  be  emotional.  Everyone  was.    
  
Everyone  was  too,  too  tired.  
  
  
“You  got  everything  you  need?”  Ana  asked,  knowing  that  yes,  Jack  had  everything  he  
needed,  and  then  some.  He  definitely  didn’t  need  an  inflatable  Lorax,  but  Ana  bought  it  for  
him,  so  of  course,  it  was  packed  in  his  most  important  suitcase  (Ana  did  some  of  the  
packing).  Jack  nodded,  heaving  his  backpack  higher  onto  his  shoulders.  The  airport  wasn’t  
particularly  crowded  today,  but  every  international  airport  had  its  constant  flow  of  people,  
coming  and  going,  beginning  an  adventure,  and  ending  one.  Jack  wore  jeans  and  a  plain,  
dark  green  T-­‐shirt.  Ana  wore  a  red  skirt  and  a  white  blouse.  
  
“Good  to  go,”  Jack  said.  Ana  nodded.  Jack  nodded.  Announcements  were  made.  People  
squealing  at  one  another  in  different  languages  passed  by.  Jack-­‐and-­‐Ana  just  nodded.  
  

“I  can’t  think  of  anything  to  say,”  Ana  finally  burst  into  a  watery  smile,  surprising  both  of  
them.  They  thought  that  Jack  would  be  the  first  to  go.  “I  feel  like  I  should  say  something  
really  poetic  here,  but…you  know…nothing.”  
  
“Yeah,”  Jack  agreed,  feeling  his  own  eyes  sting.  Ana  laughed  at  that.  
  
“Yeah.  You’re  a  man  of  words.”  
  
“Yeah.”  
  
“Yeah.”  
  
Ana-­‐and-­‐Jack  laughed,  because  they  needed  to.  It  was  Jack  who  looked  at  his  phone  and  
finally  said,  “Well,  I  think  I’ve  got  to  go.”  
  
“Well  then,  go.  Go!  Can’t  you  see  that  nobody  wants  you,  you  stupid  animal?”  Ana  angrily  
pointed  up  the  escalator.  Jack  smiled.  
  
“That’s  from  Spongebob.”  
  
“I  didn’t  think  you’d  get  that,”  Ana  grinned.  
  
“Of  course  I  would!  That  episode  with  Debbie  the  seahorse!”  
  
“You’ve  made  me  proud.”  
  
“Konichiwa,  Ana-­‐san,”  Jack  said,  bowing,  with  his  hands  pressed  together.  
  
“Konichiwa  means  hello,  you  ignorant  racist.”  
  
“Oh,  yeah.”  
  
They  paused,  but  not  long  enough  for  it  to  get  sad  again.  Ana  stood  on  her  toes  and  
wrapped  her  arms  around  Jack’s  neck,  and  he  in  turn  squeezed  her  tightly  around  her  
waist.  Ana  wondered  if  he  could  breathe,  buried  in  all  her  curly  hair.  
  
“Text  me  when  you  land,”  Ana  said  before  burying  her  mouth  in  the  collar  of  Jack’s  T-­‐shirt.  
  
“Will  do.  Have  a  safe  drive  home.”  
  
“Yep.”  The  word  was  muffled.  There  was  nothing,  nothing  in  the  world,  better  than  a  Jack-­‐
and-­‐Ana  hug.  It  was  the  perfect  pressure,  the  perfect  length,  the  perfect  comfort  level.  It  
was  hard  to  think  that  this  would  be  the  last  one  for  a  while—until  Jack  got  enough  money  
to  visit  the  US,  or  Ana  got  enough  to  visit  Ireland.  The  uncertainty  of  their  plans  was  the  
worst  part  of  it  all.  
  

They  both  let  go  at  the  same  time,  and  Ana  felt  the  wet  spot  on  her  shoulder  before  seeing  
Jack,  and  how  his  blue  eyes  were  glassy,  and  tears  were  spilling  out  of  them.  
  
“Hah!  I  told  you  that  you’d  be  the  first  to  cry!”  Ana  wiped  her  own  eyes,  smearing  her  
makeup.  
  
“Whatever,”  Jack  laughed,  dragging  one  hand  over  his  face.  He  picked  up  his  bag  and  
heaved  it  over  his  shoulder.  “I’ll  text  you.”  
  
“I’ll  text  you.”  
  
“Love  you  big  time.”  
  
“Miss  you  always.”  
  
And  Jack  laughed  again,  at  a  nonexistent  joke,  and  turned  for  the  escalator.  Ana  watched  
until  he  made  it  to  the  top,  waved  again,  and  disappeared  around  the  corner.  She  felt  empty  
now,  surrounded  by  people  with  family  and  friends  and  bags  and  bags  of  clothing  and  
souvenirs.  She  just  had  her  purse,  hanging  loosely  at  her  side.  Her  mother  called  almost  as  
soon  as  Jack  left,  wanting  to  know  if  Ana  would  be  starting  the  drive  home  soon.  She  also  let  
Ana  know  that  she  had  pizza,  salad,  and  wine  waiting  at  home—Ana’s  favorite  meal.  Ana  
could  barely  contain  her  excitement  as  she  got  back  in  her  car,  and  asked  her  mother  if  the  
family  could  all  go  to  a  movie  tomorrow.  Ana  just  realized  it  had  been  ages  since  she’d  been  
to  the  movies.  After  she  hung  up  with  her  mother,  Ana  wiped  her  eyes  and  checked  her  
mascara  to  make  sure  it  hadn’t  smudged  too  much.  When  she  pulled  out  of  the  airport  
garage,  she  saw  a  plane  taking  off,  and  said  goodbye  to  it.  It  wasn’t  Jack’s,  and  she  knew  
that,  but  still.  
  
Jack’s  flight  was  uneventful,  as  was  Ana’s  drive  home.  They  listened  to  music.  They  took  
breaks  to  pee.  They  drank  coffee.  They  both  had  a  million  things  on  their  minds,  but  in  that  
chaotic  space,  they  both  thought  about  how  Ana-­‐and-­‐Jack  met  in  freshman  year  of  college.  


