Humidity encased me like a translucent steamy chrysalis and pressed against my
beating chest with each stride further into the dense labyrinth of jade. The canopy
vibrated with the buzzes of insects, the warbles of birds, and the howls of monkeys.
Massive vines entangled the trees into a trapeze of snakelike vegetation and bluish
moss draped over the limbs low enough to graze the crown of my head. Grand
psychedelic butterflies fluttered around violet orchids whose sweet perfume stuck to
every minute drop of water vapor in the heavy air and made the entire forrest smell of
honey. Beneath the tough sole of my boots, the soft dark soil of the forrest floor gave a
little with every step and I imagined myself as a jaguar, making my way through the
jungle in silence. Sparkles of white light shimmied across the earth, sneaking through
the gaps in the treetops. The way the light danced made me imagine a jingling sound as
the little patches of hot sun quivered and illuminated floating particles in the air. Heat
was sticking to my flushed skin, slowing my travels and dampening my lips and brow. I
took a sip of cool sweet water from my pack which trickled down inside my body and
chilled my stomach, refreshing my vision and awakening me. I felt intoxicated by the
intensity of the colors surrounding me. I came to a fuchsia flower so bright that it was
alight with hot flames that made up petals larger then my head and grew out of a soft
pollen-filled center. Golden light shone over little water droplets on the enormous blades
and I witnessed fire and water peacefully coexisting. I moved on and soon came to a
cease in the dense vegetation where silvery water bubbled over smooth brown pebbles
each in their own bed of soft green algae. I walked upstream until the gentle sound of
running liquid was drowned by the roar of a large waterfall gushing out from big purplish
boulders above. I felt the light cool spray, which sparkled in every color of the rainbow
when the sun caught it, and my warm skin was soothed.

