The film Annie wanted to see was called Submerged, about marine life,
produced by a less-famous Cousteau. The face she had made in anticipation of
the film was one of radiant hope, a face Emil used to be able to elicit daily with a
nod re: the ice cream truck, and so of course he had to buy tickets.
Emil brought Annie to the Natural History museum in New York because for
one, she was showing an interest in science and two, like most teenagers, she
was retreating from him. And he was worried about her. He wanted to connect
with her. Make sure she was coping. Louise had agreed.
"What time?" the attendant said, hitting keys. They decided to see the last
show, and then go across the street for burgers.
Tickets in hand, father and daughter ducked into the Hall of Biodiversity.
Annie walked ahead, flanked by dioramas of plants, which Emil gathered were
recreations of specific places and times. White Keds elongated Annie's feet. The
big feet and her exaggerated slouching made Annie look like a Dr. Seuss
character.
She was a serious girl. Certainly, of his two daughters, the more serious.
"Sensitive" her mother said. Emil had known girls like her in high school, but

had shied away from them. Hadn't understood them or didn't imagine he had
what it took to draw them out. He hadn't kept track of these heavies to see how
they ended up. But if he could imagine, say, the demure MaryAnn Velacci, or
whipsmart Sarah Polanco, he'd imagine that they had good careers, nice
husbands, nice homes. Personally, at the time, he'd felt there were so many girls
who liked to have fun. Louise had been shy up front, but a few sips into a beer,
she effervesced.
They emerged from the dark hallway of leaves and dirts and mice and birds
he couldn't see. (He had recently lost his glasses and so had brought his backup
pair--the ones he'd wore through his thirties, which had the double bridge and
the wood paneling along the sides. But he felt pretty self-conscious in them, like
he'd just teleported in from the past, so he kept them folded onto his shirt).
There were sharks suspended from the ceiling. He could make out, after a
moment of study, that the hall was organized by kingdom. There's a word from
ninth grade. Thanks Mr. Hatfield. Wait, kingdom or phylum? Invertebrates:
protozoa, molluscs, crustaceans, spiders, insects, on the left side of the Hall of
Ocean Life. Vertebrates: fish, amphibians, birds, mammals, primates, on the
right.
He glanced down, patted the patinaed head of a frog, tongue mid-flick, and

Submerged / 3

read that amphibians are particularly susceptible to environmental change
because their skin and eggs are porous. In his mind flashed news footage from
the oil spills in '79: Ixtoc 1 in Mexico, and the Atlantic Empress in Trinidad and
Tobago. Annie was eight. Ellie would have been six. He and Louise were living
on Pine Needle Lane, renting still. Louise had cried. All those animals covered in
oil. Oil is a natural substance, he'd argued. You have no idea how big the oceans
are, and besides, how else can we make the car go? Or the economy?
These days, though, the oceans were feeling smaller to him.
Behind him, tigers, vultures, and pandas were stuffed and in glass display
cases, looking like relics of an earlier time. He had seen Green Peace
propaganda, heard the stats on the right whale population. Was it 400 now? He
started to feel overwhelmed by the feeling that he was looking at the past. He
put an arm around his daughter. "Interesting?"
She pointed up at a curlicue connecting the stuffed birds. "This shows the
hereditary line, how these species developed over time." She launched into a
discussion of genealogy and the traits that each successive generation retained
from the previous generation, for example pointing out the hip bones of the
primates, and the vertebrae of the fish. His mind was on her. She had his dark
hair and her mother's fair skin. And sometimes he saw glimpses of his own

Submerged / 4

Nanna--a statuesque lady, who dyed her beehive black to the end. A woman
whose house you had to take your shoes off in. The fondest memory he has
about visiting Nanna's house was that he and his kid brother Georgey used to
lock themselves in the bathroom so they could make silent faces at each other in
peace.
In truth, he had want to come to New York to get away from Louise. Or
from who he'd grown into living with Louise. He had too much weight around
his middle, felt tired all the time. Every morning, the alarm honking at him. Feet
on the cold floor. Stumbling into the hot shower. Lather, rinse, repeat. Pants, one
leg at a time. He always buttoned his shirt in the same order: top down, then the
wrists. Why did he do it like this? Driving through for his coffee and donut.
Arriving on the dot. Looking at spreadsheets. Accounting for cost overruns, and
executing on a budget to save the company money. Maximizing and making
efficient. Lunch was one of three options at the cafeteria: grilled cheese and
tomato; chicken noodle bread bowl, minestrone and salad. Sometimes with
colleagues. Often, alone, with the paper, which he preferred. Then four more
hours of optimizing and streamlining, and then the commute home. Sports
Radio, and knuckleheads calling in to rag on impugned members of, depending
on the season, the Sox, the Celts, or the Pats.

Submerged / 5

Last month he turned 49, so he started to make changes. And the first of
these was to take up smoking. He'd wake up 30 minutes earlier than usual and
use his extra time to smoke a cigarette on this quiet place he'd found across from
the financial district. It was right near the Crab Shack, before you get to the
Aquarium. There's a set of stairs that leads down to the back side of the
Intercontinental. Just a small, dark walkway and then Boston Harbor, and all
the yachts on your right. And at 7:30 a.m., very few people are around,
especially in winter. He went, every day, and just smoked and watched the
boats, and the sun come up, and the gulls dive for fish. There were jellyfish, too,
if he peeked over the edge of the stonewall, pulsing their slow pulse.
The air was not fresh, but it was cold and quiet. He would rub his eyes, and
feel his feet on the brick, in his leather shoes. He'd hear the gulls, and the
occasional whir of cars passing far away. And he'd feel his eyes moving around
in their sockets, and put the cigarette to his mouth and breathe in, breathe out.
The smoke helped him feel each breath. He liked to see it coming out, taking a
shape in the air as it drifted away. Smoking also reminded him of himself. The
self that was seventeen, smoking on the ballfields with Stick O'Malley.
So the truth of it is, it was Stick O'Malley, and remembering their late-night,
high-school smokes in the dugout, sometimes on top of it, sometimes in the

Submerged / 6

outfield if there were meteor showers, that made Emil decide to take Annie to
New York.
Because Stick was younger than Emil, and because he didn't go to college,
his number came up early in the draft. And he had showed up at Emil's dorm,
during Emil's senior year at Boston University, crying about all the things he
(Stick) had never done and all the place he'd never been, and New York showed
up on the list, between two girls at one time and playing pro ball, and so Emil
had brought his friend that night to South Station and booked them bus tickets
to New York City. It was 1962.

Emil and Annie turned the corner into the Hall of Ocean Life, where they
were confronted by the blue whale. The thing was big. Perhaps a bit stifflooking though. Annie was unimpressed or else hiding her enthusiasm. They
descended so they were under the whale, and they could hear the piped-in whale
song. Parents and toddlers lay on their backs under the thing, and Emil kind of
wished Annie were that young again, so they could lay on their backs, too, and
look up.
Instead, they cruised underneath, diagonally, to a diorama of a polar bear
eating a bloodied baby seal. There was one time Annie had seen their dog Bandit

Submerged / 7

eat a bird and she had cried--she must have been like four--for nearly an hour,
into his sleeve. "Where is the bird now?" And "What does dead mean?" And
Annie had always been smart so she had asked those other questions too, like
"Will you die?" and "Will I die?" and "What happens when we die?" and though
he had tried not too, he had made oblique gestures toward Heaven, because it
was just a lot more pleasant than nothing, zilch, caputzo.
Though now that she was a teenager, she shrugged, like Bad day to be a baby
harp seal. In the next scene, turtles were eating a squid's tentacles. In another, a
giant squid was wrestling a Sperm whale. Turning the next corner, dolphins and
tuna and birds competed for smaller fish. "These animals are all eating each
other," Emil joked.
"Way of the world," said Annie. Did she have to be so blasé about it?
Emil was a meat eater, as Louise's weekly shopping list would attest. Burgers,
beef, steak on the grill, roasted chicken, fried fish. If there wasn't meat, it wasn't
a meal. And her cooking. She joked that he always came in the door when
dinner was ready and he joked that his stomach drove him home. Lately though,
he'd found himself resenting the ritual. The expectation he would be there on the
dot. The pressure to show up. And worst of all, that he would actually get
hungry, crave her food, and then show up, despite whatever other thing he had

Submerged / 8

planned for himself. His stomach betrayed him.
Last week, in fact, he had called to say he had a flat tire in order to smoke
cigarettes on the Zakim bridge and watch the jellyfish down below. He leaned
over to see them and his glasses slid off his nose. He was helpless as they fell, an
interminably long fall, into the water below. He imagined a nearsighted jellyfish
wearing them around. But without them, he couldn't see the jellyfish, not to
mention the boats or even the sunset. And without sight, there was not much
more to do on the Zakim bridge and besides he was getting hungry and Louise
had said pork chops. The path home was so well worn, he didn't need glasses to
drive it. Maybe his stomach really did do the driving.
Stick O'Malley was called Stick because he was skinny and good with the
bat. But there was also the undeniable truth that Stick's penis was something to
behold. Emil had seen it, at a glance, in the shower, and felt glad for the guy.
Stick would have parties in his parents' basement and he always ended up taking
a girl up to his room for a quarter of an hour, bringing her back flushed and
untucked. One time Stick brought Katie Velacci (MaryAnn's hot kid sister)
upstairs, and one guy, maybe Disanza, had joked that she couldn't resist Stick's
stick. Emil had joked back that Stick's cock had actually started the
conversation. That Stick had just been sitting on the other side of the room,

Submerged / 9

talking geopolitics, or, like, the poetry of Whitman--and without Stick's knowing
it, his penis crossed the room and tapped Katie Velacci on the shoulder.
That's when Louise sprayed beer onto his shirt.
He was engaged to Louise by the time of the New York trip. But this was a
man thing, a life and death thing. He and Stick got off the bus in Chinatown and
hailed a cab, and after some subtle, not-so-subtle suggestions ("What kind of girl
you want? Black, White, Asian, Puerto Rican, mixed?" "Mixed," Stick had said
with surety, to Emil's surprise). They got off at an apartment in Murray Hill,
asked for "Samantha," and got in. The room smelled like cinnamon and vanilla
and lilacs waging an offensive blitz against cigarettes and sweat and vaginas.
From somewhere the Shirelles sang Baby, It's You. A yellowed, cracked lamp
shade in the corner of the room threw dim light. Draped on pieces of furniture, a
menagerie of women in bouffants and brassieres. A man poured cocktails for an
obscene price. They negotiated Stick two girls, a Black one and a Blonde one.
Both were taller than Stick. Older too.
Emil was just going to have a drink and wait for his friend, he said loudly.
Strictly not interested. In fact, he was taken. But this one girl came and sat next
to him on the barstool, asked if he were in college, what he was studying. He
loosened up. Like this is a girl I can talk to. She had freckles and wore a purple

Submerged / 10

silk bathrobe, and straddled the padded barstool, and her bare legs kept showing
from underneath the robe. He discoursed on management strategies and
accounting principles and started to feel excited by the bad thing he was doing,
which he could easily, if he had to, justify to Louise--talking to this woman in her
underthings--but then he also started to feel this other feeling, which was that
this woman might actually want to sleep with him. Like not for money. And he
started to develop this intense compassion for her, like it must be so hard to have
men treat you like a sex object all the time. So he leaned toward her, asked her
questions, complimented her, let his forearm brush her naked thigh. Tried to be
nice. Was nice.

Annie seemed to come alive in the Hall of Human Origins, where she stopped
to read all the signage. So Emil read along side her. Lucy, the 40 bones of a
female early hominid, more ape than human, was named after the Beatles' song
which the paleoarcheologists were listening to as they exhumed her.
When Emil had first heard Sergeant Pepper, it was at Stick's apartment in
the North End after Stick got back from 'Nam. Stick's place was a five-story
walkup, tenement style, and the hall had a stained blue carpet and there were
crucifixes and statues of armor on every landing. Coincidentally, the statues of

Submerged / 11

armor were about the size of Lucy, like 2/3 the size of a contemporary human.
Stick's place had virtually no furniture, just a mattress in the bedroom, and a
coffee table in the living room and he gestured for Emil to sit on the floor
around the coffee table. "That's how they do it in the East," he'd said. He was
shirtless--just denim shorts and combat boots and a trucker hat. And he was
somehow skinnier than he'd been in high school. Stick put on Sergeant Pepper,
and cracked two Heinekens, and brought out his hash stash, which he kept in a
pipe book on the bookshelf, and they smoked, and Stick kept saying, "How you
been, man?" and Emil talked about his CPA exams, the wedding, the pregnancy,
trying to save for their first house. It all sounded very vanilla as it came out of
his mouth. Like his life was so good it seemed bad.
Maybe that's what it was. With Louise. When Emil read that nearly 60% of
an ape's blood supply is used in digestion, impeding the ability for brain
development, he thought again of her dinners and resolved himself (again) to
take up a sport. Or else some more serious reading. His dad was a serious
reader. His dad had had a library in their house, with an E-Z Boy recliner and a
record player that seemed only to play concertos, and the room was floor to
ceiling lined with books. His dad would disappear into this room after dinner to
avoid the after-dinner chaos, and certainly the cleanup. And during dinner, when

Submerged / 12

there would be contention about some point of fact (e.g. Is there a word for
when your stomach grumbles?) and he'd go into his library and emerge with
documentary evidence (e.g. Borborygmus, related to the 16th-century French
borborygme, ultimately from Ancient Greek, probably onomatopoetic). And
then they would all imagine ancient wordsmiths trying to sound out bowel
disruption, which would then prompt etymylogical curiosity about FART,
POOP, etc.
Time had moved forward so militantly then, with the war, his own coming of
age, sex, television, movies. To the young Emil, histories, etymologies, even
books, seemed kind of old fashioned, so he called Dad's library his 'way back
machine,' ala Rocky and Bullwinkle.
Rocky and Bullwinkle! Every Tuesday and Thursday at 5:30, he and
Georgey and their older sister Columba--even Ma!--would crowd around the
television to watch. Those times, it felt everything was restored to its natural
order. Like his rightful place was there on the baby blue carpet, which had long
since been exhumed from the house his parents had long since vacated.
Remembering this, he felt gypped, somehow. Like he could never get back to his
rightful place.
Annie read the entire plaque about Lucy, whom Emil felt was literally what

Submerged / 13

he was trying not to be--a bag of bones (and Lucy not even a whole bag). Why
was his child was so interested in the first place in these old artifacts? Maybe he
should encourage her to smoke some weed.
When he had smoked up with Stick O'Malley that day in the North End
apartment, he had felt his body numb, balloon, float around. He had giggled. He
hadn't smoked since high school: There wasn't space in his life, with Louise, his
job and his responsibilities, a kid on the way. Stick hadn't been fishing for Emil
to bitch. "I'm getting fat," was all Emil had said. "Good," said Stick. "Fat is
good." Stick cocked his head and seemed to hold back some part of himself. And
Emil wondered if that reserved part was a horrific memory of war, or the hyper
attentiveness of a soldier who had to know what was in the bush, or the
knowledge of the darkness inside of him (Stick). Emil wondered at the darkness
inside himself too, and remembered that girl in New York. "You look skinny,
man," he said. "How've you been?" Stick toked and exhaled: "Fucked the fuck
up." He smiled and his eyes lingered on Emil's. "What can you do? Life only
goes in one direction." And Emil nodded, moved by Stick's profundity.
"Remember that time, in New York?" Stick said, then. "With the guy? And you
were like?" he doubled over and grabbed his gut, "I'll bring the rest tomorrow!"
Emil toked. "Worth every penny," he said, blowing smoke, and they burst into

Submerged / 14

laughing/crying hysteria.

The last exhibit on Annie's list, before the film on marine life, was the
Dinosaur Wing. They got off the elevator on the fourth floor and stepped into
the Hall of Saurischian Dinosaurs. Annie explained, when he asked, that
Saurischians where characterized by grasping hands that have a thumb-like
appendage, and he remembered her tiny hand holding his finger when she was
still in the hospital. He kept an eye out for dino-thumbs as he walked in, and
came to the lunging skull of the Tyrannosaurus Rex.
It was big. Not as big as he'd imagined. He'd imagined it like the size of a
house. "Let me take your picture," he said, and pulled out the point-and-shoot.
Annie stood in front of the beast and did a peace sign. "Now be a T-Rex," said
Emil, and she put up her long bony fingers and silent-roared, letting her eyes
crinkle, her white teeth gleam. He would find these later in a desk drawer, when
Annie would be a forty-something woman--spectacled, serious, living alone--and
he'd think of her as a kid.
So, actually, to be totally honest, the real reason they were in New York was
because last month Emil got a call from Mrs. O'Malley, Stick's mom. Stick had
had a rough go of it. Sometime last year or the year before Stick had lost his

Submerged / 15

apartment, lost his license, started living in Mrs. O'Malley's basement. Emil had
driven by the guy a few morning walking toward HoneyDew Donuts. Anyway,
Mrs. O'Malley had called Emil around suppertime, and he'd excused himself to
the living room because she'd been crying. She said she couldn't wake Stick up,
and could Emil please come over? He didn't want to go. He said, "Have you
called 9-1-1?"
"Please!" she'd said. "Please. You have to come."
So he excused himself from dinner, which was lamb shanks and new
potatoes, and got in his Honda Accord and drove to Mrs. O'Malley's house,
where he hadn't been since he was a kid. He stood on the brick patio in front of
the door and knocked like he did when he was a kid, and he remembered saying,
when he was a kid, Can Dougie come out to play? 'Cause Doug was Stick's real
name. And he stood there feeling sick, and smelling the lilacs in Mrs. O'Malley's
front yard, and she opened the door red-eyed and white-haired and with a
walker. And he remembered her answering the door forty years earlier and her
hair was still white, but her skin fuller somehow, and now it was all desiccated.
"Thank God," she said. "You don't know what this means," and she held his
hand in her two hands, which felt something akin to dinosaur skin.
He flipped the lights on to the basement, and went down and saw a couch

Submerged / 16

and the same coffee table they'd smoked hash at years before in Stick's Boston
apartment, and there was a television that was still on and it was playing Danger
Mouse, and there was a doorway leading to a dark bedroom that smelled sweet
and sour, like old bowls of cereal and Michelob residue. And he flicked on the
bedroom light, but it didn't work, so he brought the alarm clock over Stick's
face. The guy's eyes were opened. His mouth was opened. He skin was dark red
(or was that the alarm clock?). The guy was dead like he had died inhaling, or
trying to.
Emil touched Stick's hand, which felt like a prop piece, or a Halloween gag.
He said, "Bye, my friend." Stick had been a tall, muscular kid, and when he
stood at the plate, he looked real relaxed. He had control like no other. He could
sac fly, bunt, drive it at the pitcher's head, plop one into left field. Whatever the
game needed him to do, he did it.
Life was a one-way street, he'd said.
Emil climbed up the basement stairs to Mrs. O'Malley's kitchen and sat with
her at the yellow laminate table, held her hand, and explained that Stick was
gone. "Gone where?" she asked. He knew then that she knew. That she was
doing mental jiujitsu to avoid knowing. Hell, she must have known when she
tried to wake him. Who could see those shocked eyes, that gaping mouth, and

Submerged / 17

think a guy is sleeping? "Gone with Mr. O'Malley, Ma'am. Gone with God." He
thought that's how she'd want to hear it put. He moved his chair closer to hers,
put an arm around her while she cried. He called 9-1-1, and the Bristol County
Medical Examiner, who would pronounce the cause of death pancreatitis, (Mrs.
O'Malley would call during dinner a few weeks later to say).
Moving through the Hall of Dinosaurs, Emil stood next to Annie while they
read a plaque that suggested the planet is in the middle of another mass
extinction. This was news to him, but it didn't hurt as much as he would have
expected it to hurt. He was already on his way out. He watched with some
curiosity as news settled onto his daughter's face, though, into her being. Would
she cry, like she had when the baby bird died? He thought of the oil spills, the
penetrable skins of amphibians. How thick would her skin would be? Would
she'd look to him for explanation? How could he explain? People are always
predicting the end of the world, kiddo. Or maybe, don't worry, sweetheart, we
humans flame out all the time.
But she didn't say anything, and he wouldn't call her out for feelings she
hadn't copped to yet.
He'd been thinking of Stick a lot lately, and thinking of Stick made him think
of that time in New York, that girl in the apartment. Her breasts had been

Submerged / 18

heavy, hot-to-the-touch breasts, her skin like flames because she was breathing
under that skin, and pumping and living and fucking, and she smelled like
coconut. And it had ended up costing him eighty bucks and he'd only had $60
and the bartender punched him in the stomach and threw him onto the sidewalk.
And how Stick came tumbling out of the building, how he called the bartenderguy a goddamned shit-faced monkey motherfucker, and helped Emil up and
laughed and laughed, and then went off to war.
He doesn't at all regret it, that time with that woman. It was a stab at
humanness. Because being human is about being alive, and being alive is about
being an animal. Not what's for dinner; Not do the numbers add; Not what are
the knuckleheads think about the Sox, or the Celts, or the Pats. And standing in
front of the Apocalyptic plaque in the museum with his daughter, he wished he
could make her see this nuance of feeling, without disabusing her of her faith in
him to be a good person. He wished she would ask.

Submerged, the film about marine life, was in a blow-up dome, meaning that
industrial fans kept the dome inflated. Emil and Annie had to crawl inside the
inflated plastic dome, and the film was projected onto the dome's ceiling. There
were lots of kids in there, and Annie and Emil found floor space opposite the

Submerged / 19

door and opposite the projector that was set up in front of the door. Given the
crowd, they sat on their butts with their feet pulled in close, and craned their
necks up.
"You should put your glasses on," she said. He conceded. These were the
glasses he was wearing in the snapshots from her birth. Holding his wife's hand.
Holding the blanket with the brand new life inside it.
He looked at Annie, but she was looking up. So he looked up too and caught
this breathtaking scene of purple and gold lobsters jockeying for a hiding place
among the coral. Naked pink nautiluses competing with each other for shells. An
orange octopus at once stuffing itself into a tiny crevasse and then emerging to
coil through the sea, majestic and boneless except for its beak. Who knew such
beauty existed under the surface?
Since the film was too long for the smaller kids, the dome cleared out as
quickly as it filled. Emil and Annie lay on their backs, hands under their heads,
and looked up at the sea life above them. It reminded Emil of how Annie used to
lie next to him to watch Yogi Bear. Sometimes next to him. Sometimes on him,
like he was a boat, or half on him--her feet in his face, totally unselfconscious.
It reminded him too of the meteor showers he and Stick used to watch, and
how the universe had seemed so vast when they were seventeen, and how it

Submerged / 20

seemed less vast of late.
When the film ended, they watched the credits all the way through--an
acknowledgement, he felt, that Annie had enjoyed it. When the credits ended,
she stood up, signaling she was ready to eat.
"Did you like it?" He reached his hand up and she took it. At the same
moment, the film started up again. But this was the last show? Had they lucked
into a freebie? The film projected itself onto Annie's face and neck and shirt, and
Emil saw his daughter beneath jellyfish, urchins, starfish, and squid. Diluted in
blues and fish and kelp and seaweed. Like she was drowning. Or had long-ago
drowned. He wanted to rescue her, shake her, tell her to live. On the other hand,
he wanted to ask her, in his most casual voice, to stay right there on that small
square of carpet with him. Want to watch it again? he could say.
But the moment had passed and he could see in her eyes it was time.


