I thought I recognized that employee.
Dude and I had struck up a conversation last summer, when I was at Disney with my two
sons and their friends. Sucks to be me, I had joked with the guy. All four boys having
ADHD, and all that cherry Coke in their veins, and suddenly for me, the park was no
longer The Happiest Place on Earth...it was The Most Hyperactive.
We had just come off the most maddening ride, on Roger Rabbit's Car Toon Spin—a
ride, I might add, that these four boys are far too old for, just judging from their collective
armpit B.O. alone—and we were walking (ricocheting? head-lock-strangling whilestaggering?) toward It's a Small World (which I felt might calm them all the fuck down),
when BLAM! there was this explosion in a trash can right in front of us.
Terrorism at Disneyland? I was stunned, like, "Al Qaeda, is NOTHING sacred?"
We darted to the left, into shrubs. They weren't thick shrubs. Disneyland is so pristine
that every leaf of every shrub in the entire park is accounted for. I've noticed this every
year when I go. There's not a bit of moss nor one single weed, and certainly no hedge
untrimmed. So, from the lame cover of these overgroomed, too-thin little buxus hedges,
we observed the scene.
"Duuuuude!" Dylan said, elbowing Tyler. Randal, who still had the collar of Kai's t-shirt
in his clutches, relaxed his grip and shot me a worried look.
"Like, that's a BOMB," Randal said in a quieter voice than I ever thought possible for
him. He's so annoying most of the time. If I could only defriend his mom, I would, but
she's the reason I get free lacquer mani-pedis whenever I want—before 11 a.m., that is—
so I put up with her kid's obnoxiousness. But here and now, Randal's eyes were all fear,
his mouth slack.
Over by the exploded trash can, uniformed Disney security personnel created a perimeter.
Some of the personnel were dressed as tourists in plain clothes, even one pained-looking
older guy in cheesy floral Alohawear. I noticed a column of white smoke rising, drifting

our way.
"Is that toxic gas?" Kai wondered aloud.
"I'm not sure," I said. "All I know is that we're way the hell in the back of the park, about
as far from the car as possible. It's going to be a bitch to get out of here."
It was already close to dinnertime. I do Disney efficiently—one day for all of it. We live
in El Cajon, and I'll be dipped in shit to get overnight accommodations. We just leave as
early as humanly possible, and milk that one-day ticket for all it's worth. Now, it seemed
we'd be getting a lot less "milk" this year. But who knows? Maybe management would
throw us five free day passes for another day, to compensate for our pain and suffering as
spectators of their domestic terror assault.
One can always hope. Right?
"Guys, come on," I announced, with this five-ticket-procurement quest now in mind.
"Let's go talk to some people."
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------It sucks, but they didn't pony up for anything. A mass wall of Disney employees ushered
us along, grinning like undertakers, as we made our way with the rest of the shorts-clad
visitorkind toward the south end of the park. I thought about my previous visit to Disney.
It never occurred to me that a guest or—gasp—even a park employee would commit a
terrorist act. What was stopping someone, though?
Last summer there was this one young employee, a man with the darkest AfricanAmerican skin, who waited alongside me and the same four rowdy boys, because there
was a roped-off situation: a procession of actors in costume were making their way along
Tomorrowland Way toward the Starcade for a show. The wait took forever, and I was
just making friendly conversation with the man.
"I'm sure that 'The Happiest Place on Earth' can try one's patience," I said, raising one
eyebrow.
"Heh-heh. I'm late for my shift, so you're looking at ‘tried patience’ right here," he said.
"Surely they understand when you're physically prevented from clocking in because of
this kind of procession...you're not in trouble in that case? Are you?"
He paused for just a brief moment. Was he deciding whether or not to share? He gripped
his backpack, sighed, then went ahead with it: "They don't care why I'm late, or anyone
else is. You just get written up and your pay docked."
"That's harsh."

	  

	  

Dry	  Ice	  

"That's Disney."
"The Happiest Place."
"Yeah, lady, sure. 'The Happiest Place.'"
He was smirking when he said this, and shaking his head.
I smiled, thinking it better for everyone involved to cut the chit-chat at that point.
In a way, he reminded me of the rapper Akon, in that one video with all the strip club
girls.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------I'm sure of it. I'm sure it's that exact same guy now in the news, the one who was late for
his shift that day.


