The streets were not as empty as Rex would have liked, given the hour. Though the mist
hid his fellow nocturnal wanderers from view, he could not escape the sound of their laughter.
He quickened his pace, hoping to avoid them entirely, but luck was not with him. He ran
headlong into the happy couple; their dress suggested an evening of culture, perhaps the opera,
though Rex found the notion difficult to credit given the amount of rouge the woman wore. The
couple cackled out an apology, and Rex gritted his teeth until they had passed back into the haze.
The wind howled down the narrow street, swirling abandoned newspapers about Rex’s
feet. He always left these company dinners with a tremendous headache, not that work was to
blame. Wives’ tales swirled around his brain. Try as he might, he couldn’t dislodge those
piercing voices from his mind. Better to have foresworn the company of women than to be
trapped with a shrew for the rest of one’s life. He had repeated this philosophy to himself all
through the night, but no belief, no matter how staunch, could protect against the sting of being
the only man at dinner without a companion.
Rex slowed to a stop. He had lost himself in his thoughts, missing his turn in the process.
With a grumble, he hurried back to Spruce Street, but what he saw pushed all thoughts of home
out of his mind.
Standing in a storefront window was the most beautiful woman he had ever seen. Even at
a distance he could see the shades of blue in her eyes, her perfect pink lips, and the chestnut
ringlets that fell like a waterfall down her back. His attraction reeked of weakness, but his lonely
heart was no match for such a face. Rex wandered over as casually as he could manage, and his
spirit leapt when she did not flee at his approach. He hurried to the window, but as he placed his
hands on the glass and stared up into the face that had captured his heart so quickly, his dream
shattered. Here was no woman at all but a porcelain doll made in the size and shape of a young

Le Fanu’s Host of Curiosities - 2
lady. Despite his initial disappointment, Rex’s fascination held. This creature was no less
beautiful for being porcelain. On the contrary, freed from all the flaws of flesh, she was the
picture of perfection.
The sign hanging over the shop read Le Fanu’s Host of Curiosities – Est. 1792. Rex
rubbed his eyes, but this was no trick of the brandy he had consumed with dinner. The bookshop
stood where it had for the last ten years, as did the milliners; somehow Rex had never noticed the
squat little shop nestled between them, the one claiming to be one hundred years old. Of course,
had it not been for that exquisite face in the window, who could say if he would have noticed it
now?
Doubt crept into Rex’s mind even as he reached for the door. The shop was certainly
closed, but all of his desires mounted as he looked at that beautiful creature. He was not usually a
man to suffer frivolities, much less entertain the notion of buying playthings at his age, but he
pushed those thoughts aside as his fingers closed around the doorknob. Much to his surprise, it
turned, and he soon found himself standing inside Le Fanu’s Host of Curiosities.
Dark, heavy carpets overlapped on the stone floor, swallowing the thin light of the lamps.
Wooden cabinets lined the walls, and in a glance, Rex caught sight of candles, powders, and
utensils that looked very much like human bone. He took a trepidatious step forward, ducking
instinctively though the dream catchers hung far above his head. He bent towards the front table,
where a skull in a jeweled masquerade mask glittered above a stuffed armadillo with a miniature
stone castle on its back; splayed around them were silver, embossed cards. The scent of incense
wafted through the air, muddling Rex’s thoughts.
With a sudden remembrance of the purpose of his visit, Rex turned to the window only to
find his way blocked by a man. Rex started, and the man let out a chilling laugh.

Le Fanu’s Host of Curiosities - 3
“My apologies,” the man said. “You would think that, given the nature of my gallery, I
would take care not to startle my patrons, but I don’t seem able to resist when the opportunity
beckons. Please forgive me. Mister Jacques Le Fanu, at your service,” he said, bowing slightly.
There was nothing remarkable about Le Fanu upon first glance, but the longer Rex stared,
the stranger the shopkeeper appeared. He was tall and slender with long fingers he now tented,
resting them on his sternum. He wore his thin, gray hair to his shoulders, yet it begged for a
barber to shear it off, and his clothes, though stately, had been in fashion no less than fifty years
ago. Rex could think of no other recourse than to stare dumbly, even when Le Fanu snapped his
fingers under Rex’s nose.
“Come now,” Le Fanu said. “What brings you into my shop?”
“The door was open,” stammered Rex.
“Which you’ll find is quite common for a business. Why did you walk inside?”
Rex stopped his gaze from traveling over to the window. He couldn’t explain to the
strangest of strangers that he was interested in a doll.
“I’ve just come to look around.”
“And so you shall.”
Le Fanu bowed low and withdrew to his stool behind the counter. His retreat did little to
comfort Rex, who could feel the proprietor’s eyes following him with every step he took. He
circled the shop, hoping Le Fanu would leave him be long enough that he might steal a glance at
the window, but the man was a vulture. No more than five minutes had passed before he was
once again at Rex’s side, leading him to the bookshelves.

Le Fanu’s Host of Curiosities - 4
“If you’re in for a bit of a thrill, perhaps you would be interested in my extensive library.
I’ve a very interesting book about a young artist who returns to London after his education in
Europe left him penniless.”
“I’m afraid I’m not after a book,” Rex said.
Rex’s eyes flickered to the window despite himself. He had hoped Le Fanu wouldn’t
notice, but without following the line of Rex’s gaze, Le Fanu smiled, revealing his small, pointy
teeth.
“Ah, Bianca,” he whispered.
With a wink and a smirk, he glided towards the window and waited. Rex lingered by the
table for a moment, until at last his longing defeated his embarrassment and he joined Le Fanu.
“I came in on a whim,” said Rex. “I don’t even know why I bothered really.”
“Come now Mr. Cypress, no need to feel ashamed. Bianca is one of the finest pieces in
the store.”
Before Rex could ask how he had known his name, Le Fanu stepped into the window
display, scooped the doll into his arms as a groom would carry his bride, and positioned her in
the armchair next to Rex. She was even more beautiful up close. Her glass eyes were the softest
blue, and her complexion, so pale that in certain light she almost looked white, had been painted
without a single flaw. A shudder ran down Rex’s back as his finger brushed one of Bianca’s
perfect curls.
“Tell me Mr. Cypress, are you married?” Le Fanu asked.
“No,” said Rex sharply, drawing his hand away from the doll.
Le Fanu said nothing, but his lips curled with some private musing he was not good
enough to share.

Le Fanu’s Host of Curiosities - 5
“Your interest in Bianca is understandable. What better cure for heartache than a
companion who cannot leave you? Unless it was more than loneliness that brought you to my
shop.”
There was no judgment in Le Fanu’s tone, and Rex allowed his mind to unpack the
possibility of this transaction. He pictured Bianca sitting beside the fire, smiling at him when he
returned from a grueling day at the bank. Then he pictured himself sitting beside a lifeless doll,
and he looked the part of the fool. He was about to say as much, but Le Fanu was barking
towards the back room.
One of the tapestries on the back wall moved aside, and out walked a young woman. She
had a plain, sad sort of face, and the colorful skirts and headscarf she wore, rather than give her
an air of mystery, made her face look all the more artless in comparison. She hurried forward
with a large piece of parchment, which Le Fanu tore from her hand. She shuffled back to the
tapestry, but one sharp word from Le Fanu stopped her in her tracks.
“My daughter Esmeralda,” said Le Fanu. He adjusted his scowl and presented the paper
to Rex. “I have here a bill of sale should your intentions go further than mere curiosity.”
“And what use would I have for a doll? I have my reputation to think of.”
“And who could begrudge you a companion? They all take one for themselves, sooner or
later. Bianca could be yours.” Rex shook his head and took an unsteady step towards the door.
Le Fanu merely shrugged. “Of course, if you don’t want her, you don’t want her. Silly me. I
must have misread your interest. Let’s put you back my dear.”
Le Fanu hoisted Bianca over his shoulder and carried her to the window. Rex hurried to
the door, but he couldn’t resist one last look over his shoulder.

Le Fanu’s Host of Curiosities - 6
“Will you be wanting me to take the bill back Father?” asked Esmeralda, emerging from
the shadows.
“No, leave it with me. It won’t be long before we find another buyer.”
Rex withdrew his hand from the knob and whipped around.
“You still mean to sell her?” Rex asked.
“This isn’t a museum, Mr. Cypress,” said Le Fanu. He continued to arrange Bianca’s
curls without a glance in Rex’s direction. “This is a shop, and as such, I mean to make a living.
Now if you’ll excuse us, my daughter and I would like to close for the night.”
“I’ll buy the doll,” Rex declared.
In an instant, Le Fanu was at his side, leading him over to the counter where Esmeralda
had the bill prepared. Rex realized too late that he should have inquired after the price. He
couldn’t imagine Le Fanu’s reaction if he backed out of the sale once more. The proprietor
reached behind the counter, and he produced a small knife and a vial.
“I can guarantee that Bianca will be a cure for your loneliness, but the price is steep,”
said Le Fanu. “Five dollars for the doll. Five drops of blood for the wish.”
Rex’s mouth went dry. The wish he had been harboring resided deep in his most secret
soul, but there seemed to be nothing Le Fanu couldn’t deduce. Rex managed a nod. He held out
his hand, shaking with anticipation. Le Fanu gently pricked Rex’s index finger with the tip of the
knife. He pressed the vial to the cut, counting out five drops of blood. He secured a lid on the
vial, which Esmeralda collected and hid in the folds of her skirts.
“What are you going to do with it?” Rex asked.
“That, I’m afraid, was not part of our arrangement,” Le Fanu said with a smile.

Le Fanu’s Host of Curiosities - 7
The contract included a bill of sale. Rex’s eyes swam over the text, catching only
snatches such as “binding” and “irrevocably.” Le Fanu’s long finger pointed to the very bottom,
where he waited for Rex to make his mark.
“You haven’t a pen?” asked Rex.
“All in good time,” said Le Fanu. “I find that sealing in blood makes for a much better
bind. Just a dab will do.”
It was a terrifying notion, but as Le Fanu had already collected his blood, what was to
stop him from sealing it himself when Rex left? With his heart trembling beneath his Adam’s
apple, Rex laid his bloody finger on the parchment. In one swift movement, Le Fanu seized
Esmeralda’s wrist and pricked her finger, which she proceeded to place on the parchment.
“You’re not signing it?” Rex asked.
“You’ll find Esmeralda’s blood is fresher than mine. But never you mind. My blood runs
in her veins. Through her I am bound to the contract, same as you.”
Le Fanu took a potion down from the cabinet and placed one drop on Rex’s cut finger.
Slowly, the blood flowed back into the wound, which closed until there was no mark left. Rex
gasped, but there was no evidence of a cut. Even the pain was gone. With a curt reminder from
Le Fanu, Rex paid his five dollars until all that remained of the bargain was Rex’s signature on
the bill of sale. Much to his surprise, Le Fanu held out a quill. Rex did his best to look
incredulous, but as Le Fanu did not show so much as a wrinkle of embarrassment, Rex sighed
and signed his name. His signature was sloppier than he would have liked, but he had no time to
blame the pen. Le Fanu sprinted to the window, once more shouldering Bianca’s weight.
Esmeralda left for the back of the shop, quickly returning with a parcel that she forced into Rex’s
hands.

Le Fanu’s Host of Curiosities - 8
“The door, if you would, Mr. Cypress,” she said.
Rex wrenched open the door, and Le Fanu maneuvered gracefully through. Rex followed
to find a hansom waiting for them.
“Now this will be much more convenient then carrying her the rest of the way home,
don’t you think?” said Le Fanu. “Don’t mind the price. It’s already been settled.”
The driver showed no interest while Le Fanu arranged Bianca inside the carriage as
though she were a young lady. Le Fanu bowed to her; then, shaking Rex’s hand, he disappeared
into the shop. The lights extinguished almost at once, leaving Rex alone and baffled next to the
carriage.
It was the strangest ride Rex could remember, sitting with a lifeless companion. More
awkward still was carrying her up the stairs to his townhouse. Le Fanu had made it look so easy,
but Rex quickly learned that though Bianca was not as heavy as flesh and blood, her body was
less forgiving. He abandoned his attempt to bring her upstairs and instead set her down on the
sofa in the parlor. He wiped his brow with his handkerchief, but no matter how long he dawdled,
Bianca remained no more than a doll. With a sigh, he tore into the parcel from Esmeralda.
Had the doll come to life, Rex might have appreciated the extra dresses, the veiled hat,
and the white dressing gown, but all they offered him now was more clutter. Rex tossed them
aside and held his head in his hands. He had felt so much surer of his purchase in the shop, where
magic and fantasy were woven into the very fabric of the room, but now that he sat in his
comfortable and practical parlor, he lost all hope of anything fantastical happening. He enjoyed
the look of the doll, but if he had wanted a piece of art, he could have easily bought a portrait and
been spared the aggravation.

Le Fanu’s Host of Curiosities - 9
Rex clutched the doll by the shoulders and shook with all his might, but none of his
efforts roused her. She grinned unseeing at him, causing the knot of embarrassment in his chest
to twist. What a fool he had been to think she could ever be more than what lay before him. He
reached for the parcel of clothes, ready to run to Le Fanu and demand his money back, when he
remembered that the shop would be closed. Rex let out a howl. He should have known better
than to trust that charlatan. He seized of the doll’s neck with the intention of flinging her out onto
the street, but as he gazed at her sweet face, he forgot his rage. He whispered her name and found
he didn’t feel remarkably silly doing so. A shiver shook his spine as he leaned in towards her.
Before he could press his lips against hers, Bianca’s eyelashes fluttered. Rex scrambled to the far
side of the room, but this was no trick of his imagination. Bianca had blinked. She had come
alive.
#


