Lillian was born in Sussex in January 1928. Both her parents were in service. She was
named after the actress Lillian Hall-Davis whom they had seen as the housekeeper in
Hitchcock’s The Farmer’s Wife. They hoped that their daughter would move up out of service
into a more glamorous occupation. However, years later after various undertakings that had not
quite worked out, she found a position with Mrs. Benton. It was 1952 and Mrs. Benton’s
daughter Sarah was two years old.
Mrs. Benton had already employed three nannies, none of whom she thought of as very
satisfactory, and she was very clear about her requirements. “You will be here by eight in the
morning and help cook. Sarah is good in the morning and will not need much attention until
nine, after which you will need to be with her full-time. She is to be given her own tea and dinner
and put to bed by eight. You may leave anytime after that. It’s good that your bedsit is nearby.”
No mention was made of holidays or when she herself would find time to eat.
However, Sarah was a delightful girl and Lillie never begrudged her the hard work or
long hours. Sarah was enchanted by story time. Before her afternoon nap and at bedtime, Lillie
would read her a book. Her favorite, from the series It’s Nap Time, was “Father Needs to Nap.”
Lillie speculated that Sarah hardly ever saw Mr. Benton but kept her thoughts to herself. Mrs.
Benton ruled the household with a firm hand and sharp tongue.
Mrs. Benton was always complaining. “If it’s not one thing, it’s another.” She sternly
scolded her for eating along with Sarah. “You may mistakenly offer her food from your plate
that can be too big for her to chew or swallow. I’m sure there are many moments in between
when you can grab a bite to eat.” In addition, many times she remanded Lillie for being idle.
“While Sarah naps there are her clothes to put away and her room always needs straightening.”
1

In truth, Lillie was worked to exhaustion. Once, and it was only that once, she fell asleep
kneeling next to Sarah’s bed as she finished reading one of the Nap Time books. From that point
on, Mrs. Benton warned her each Monday, “I didn’t employ a nanny to have her sleep on the
job.”
Lillie continued in employment for five years. In September 1957, Sarah started first
grade in Mrs. Mottelson’s Academy, an exclusive private school for girls. Mrs. Benton spoke to
Lillie a week after school had begun. “I really don’t need a personal maid,” which was how
Lillie filled the day, “and Sarah is little bother now that she is in school all day. She’s old enough
now to take her meals with us.” With that, she offered Lillie next week’s remittance and her best
wishes for finding another position. Her parting words, said with her chins pulled up and
shoulders thrown back were, “I don’t think you should ask for a reference since you fell asleep
on the job.”
Lillie was forced to move back home with her mother. The only employment she could
find at that point was as a clerk part-time in a general goods store. She missed working with little
children. Luckily, the following summer a Mrs. Fuller stopped in by chance and glancing over a
post-board of cards saw Lillie’s seeking a position as a nanny. Mrs. Fuller was new money and
had a three-year-old daughter Kendril. She arranged to meet Lillie at a teashop and was delighted
with her find when she learned that Lillie was willing to help prepare meals. “I think this will
work out splendidly for us both. Kendril hardly ever causes any problems.”
Her hours were set at nine to seven. “We eat at six sharply. Mr. Fuller is an American and
never could adapt to our English dining hours. You can eat with us, Mr. Fuller insists; he’s so
egalitarian, but you’ll have to help with the cleanup. He also wishes to put Kendril to bed.”

2

Mrs. Fuller was often out during the day. With her newfound wealth, she was determined
to do “good works” and sat on several committees. Lillie asked if she would buy some of the
books in the Nap Time series. “My previous charge was delighted by the stories.” Two days later
Mr. Fuller came home with the complete set. There were two new volumes.
Occasionally Mrs. Fuller would have an early-morning meeting and would ask Lillie to
come in at eight. “Mr. Fuller says to tell you to keep track of the extra hours and we can either
pay you extra or you could take, as the Americans would say, ‘comp-time,’ and leave early one
afternoon.” After one long morning meeting she came home after lunch just as Lillie was putting
Kendril down to nap. She collapsed in an easy chair in a corner of the bedroom, kicked her shoes
off, and exclaimed, “Mommy is so tired, Kendril, I need to rest. Come give me a kiss.”
After the kiss and, “I need to go potty again,” Kendril climbed up on her bed. Lillie
pulled the comforter back, smiled, and started reading Mother Needs to Rest by Houston
Stoughton, L.E.D. “Once upon a time...” Two minutes later Kendril was asleep and Lillie gently
helped Mrs. Fuller into her own bedroom, where with her belt loosened and a cotton blanket
spread on top, she went back to sleep. Snores followed Lillie as she went to the kitchen to start
preparations for their supper.
One morning Mrs. Fuller joined Lillie as she walked with Kendril to the neighborhood
park. The little girl was delighted to hold both their hands. The grownup conversation floated
unheeded above her head.
“Kendril will be five in another month. I do so have to think about her schooling.”
Lillie volunteered that her former employer sent her daughter to Mottelson’s Academy.
“It’s an old school, girls only, but it’s well thought of. You could call Mrs. Benton if you wish. I
must still have her number somewhere.”
3

“Oh, that won’t be necessary. I’m sure I can find their number in the directory. Perhaps
they have a kindergarten and Kendril could start in the fall. Mr. Fuller is always saying how
important an education is and you can never learn enough. Is it far from here?”
“No, I think it may be less than a mile, especially if you’re walking and cut through the
park. Why in a year or so, I can most likely walk Kendril there myself if the weather is nice.”
Mrs. Fuller made her inquiries and enrolled her daughter in half-day kindergarten. Most
days Lillie used the stroller to take her and picked her up three hours later.
Ever since she had left service with the Bentons, Lillie had sent birthday and Christmas
cards to Sarah. Mr. Benton sorted the mail when he came home in the evening and always put
them on his daughter’s nightstand when he went up to kiss her goodnight.
The second time Lillie brought Kendril to school, she saw Sarah in the playground and
waved. Sarah waved back, explained to the teacher on duty that this was her old nanny, and ran
up to hug her. Lillie introduced her to young Kendril. Sarah promised, “I have only two more
years to go and will keep a good eye on her just as you did for me all those years ago.”
When Kendril started first grade and was in school full-time, Mrs. Fuller became even
more active in her good causes. She asked Lillie if she would be willing to take on more of the
household duties. “If you’d be willing to do the cleaning and laundry I wouldn’t need Emma to
come in twice a week. Otherwise, well, you can see there’s not that much for you to do now that
Kendril is in school all day. And we do like your cooking.” Sarah hesitated. “And Mr. Fuller
says we should give you a nice raise especially since Kendril likes you so much.”
In truth, Kendril was moody and preferred playing by herself. When she was five and a
half she told Lillie, “The nap books are boring, even The Princess Lies Down. And by now I

4

know them all by heart.” Kendril thought of herself as a princess and claimed she no longer
needed to nap with or without peas under her mattress.
In 1964, Mr. Fuller’s business took a loss. He came home early one Friday and talked
with Lillie.
“We’re so sorry, but I’m afraid we can no longer afford help, even part-time, and will
have to let you go. Perhaps you can work another week while I explain this to Kendril and she
has a chance to say goodbye. You’re almost like family to her. We’ll be able to give you two
weeks’ severance and a strong letter of recommendation. I’m sure you’ll have little trouble
finding a new position with a nice family.”
There were not many calls for nannies in 1964, especially if you weren’t willing to go to
America. Lillie moved back home again. The most difficult part of her termination was not being
able to chat with Sarah when she walked Kendril to and from school.
Happily, Lillian found a position five months later as a woman’s companion with Mrs.
Hoeppel-Witz. It was March 1965. She served her faithfully for the next eight years,
accompanying her to spas and on biennial trips to the south of France where her employer had
distant relatives. Finally, Mrs. Hoeppel-Witz health gave out, requiring the attention of a trained
nurse. Lillie was retained on a part-time basis for the next six months. When Mrs. HoeppelWitz’s condition further worsened she was moved into a special facility, Lillie was given two
months wages as severance.
Again, she moved back in with her mother. However, she was quick to say, “Old money
is always so gracious. I just wish there was more I could do for Mrs. Hoeppel-Witz.” She visited
her at the nursing home the first Sunday of every month until she passed. Two weeks later a
package arrived for Lillie. It contained the afghan that she had often placed on Mrs. Hoeppel5

Witz’s lap when she had felt a little chill. Lillie had commented once that it was indeed a
distinguished afghan.
A note came along with it in the nurse’s handwriting. “I know how much you admired
this all the years you were so helpful. I think of you fondly and hope you will remember me in
kind.” There were two shaky letters at the bottom: H – W. Lillie proudly put it over an arm of the
couch in her mother’s sitting room saying, “See, being in service with the proper people is not
that bad.”
Unfortunately, three months later Lillie’s mother started doing poorly. At first, they put it
down to old age. Lillie acted as both companion and nurse. The intimacy gave them time to talk
openly. Her mother expressed her regrets that Lillian had never married. “It would have been
nice for you to have a family of your own.”
Lillie said she didn’t mind. “Everything works out for the best. Now I have time to be
with you.”
Late at night Lillie would recall how shy she was as a girl and how she had flinched when
the older children, finding out that her parents were in service, would tease, “Silly, little Lillie,
nobody cares/your mommy washes others’ underwear,” hissing the esses at the end of others’.
By the time her mother’s cancer was discovered it was too late. She died before the early tulip
blooms came up in their window box. Lillie went back to clerking part-time.
She was glad she had kept in touch with Sarah, who had married Mr. Fernshaw in June
1972. Three years later, almost to the day, she gave birth to a daughter. Lillie waited two weeks
before coming by with a small gift for the baby. She suggested they bundle up the baby and sit
with her in the back garden. They caught up, whispering to each other while Lillie gently rocked
the carriage. Sarah expressed her condolences on learning of her mother’s death. She went on to
6

say she planned to stay home from her job with the baby full-time while she nursed. She didn’t
think a moment and asked, “Would you like to be Joan’s nanny once I go back to work. Just
think – this will be your second generation with us!”
A big smile, a joyous laugh, and a quick, “Of course I’d be delighted!” Then a small
furrow moved across Lillie’s brow and she asked, “And how is your mother, Mrs. Benton.”
“Oh, mother is much the same. I don’t think she has much use for babies and I know
none at all for dirty nappies, even if it’s all part of life. However, she and father are doing well.
He has slowed down a bit. They still stop in every other Sunday. Dad’s always saying, ‘Don’t
wish to be a bother. Here, we’ve brought some scones to go along with tea.’”
Seven months later Sarah returned to work part-time. Lillie came in four days a week.
Unfortunately, Sarah became ill and the doctors prescribed bed-rest for a month. Lillie was asked
to move in. Mrs. Benton argued with her daughter that having live-in help was not proper, “Men
being what they are.” But she herself was of little help. So Mr. Fernshaw arranged for Lillie to
move in with them. She had two rooms in their attic and her own bathroom. Whatever she no
longer needed from her mother’s apartment was donated to Oxfam.
Sarah never fully recovered her strength from before her confinement. Now Lillie’s
employment was more than full-time but since Joanie was much like her mother, an appreciative
baby, Lillie never begrudged the extra effort. She always arranged to be out when the Bentons
visited but Mrs. Benton continued to remark how “That nanny was spoiling her granddaughter
silly. She’s read that book, Mommy Needs to Rest, so often I dare say the girl has it memorized.”
Soon they were celebrating Joanie’s fifth birthday. Arrangements were made to enroll her
in a new private school, Mottelson’s Academy having closed its doors the year before Joan was
born. She started school that fall. Much to everyone’s surprise Sarah announced that she was
7

pregnant shortly after the New Year, 1981. She gave birth to a son at the end of June. Byron was
a healthy 7 lbs. 8 oz. Lillie doted on the new baby as if he were her own.
Mr. Benton was now semi-retired and complained of health problems. They now visited
only on the first Sunday of every month. Mrs. Benton explained that he was too weak to make
the extra stop for scones. Lillie made sure to bake fresh ones before she went out. Mr. Benton
passed in early April 1983. The estate was settled before the summer was out and Mrs. Benton
moved to the English “colony” in southern Spain. She wrote Sarah that she was welcome to
come with the children any time. “We have good help here. They know their place.” She
underscored “place.”
Lillie was now treated as one of the family and stayed on even after Byron started school.
However, she agreed to eat with them only on Easter and Christmas and still insisted on clearing
after dinner. Officially, she was now a general companion to Sarah, who was often confined to
bed.
In 1993 little Joanie went on to U and insisted that she now be called Sylvia, the name of
her paternal grandmother. “Sylvia has so much more gravitas than Joan.” She graduated with
honors and joined an old London firm. Three years later in 2002, she married one of the junior
partners, the honorable Mr. Isaac Samuelson. The Fernshaws were happy with their new son-inlaw even if he was of the Jewish faith.
Mrs. Benton said she was not strong enough to make the trip back for the wedding.
Indeed, she passed suddenly in 2003, leaving instructions that she be cremated and her ashes
buried on English soil, “There is no finer,” were the last words in her testament.
Lillie visited her mother’s grave and told her that she had celebrated her 75th birthday
quietly by herself in a very nice tearoom. “I wore one of the pretty hats that Sarah had given
8

me.” When she returned home to the Fernshaws, she asked if they would be willing to help her
write her will and final instructions. They agreed. Mr. Fernshaw said he would ask someone in
his firm to work with her. “I think it is better that way. She will keep the matter confidential.
There should never be a question of undue influence.”
Sylvia gave birth to a baby boy the following year and named him Winston. Sarah
conferred with Lillie, who agreed to help with the new baby during the day. Sarah rummaged in
the attic for a week and found the box with the books from the series It’s Nap Time, bringing the
books the next time she left Lillie for the day. That very afternoon, Lillie dusted them off and
began reading to him.
The years had caught up with Lillie and by the end of the month, she begged off coming
every day. She joked with Sarah, “Honestly, some mornings I feel as if I could also use a
woman’s companion.” However, she still made the effort to come once a week to help so she
could continue reading to the baby. She was delighted one day when she found several new
volumes on the bureau in the baby’s room. Sylvia explained, “My father-in-law was glad you are
reading to young Winston. He went out and bought these new volumes. He told me, ‘Jews are
called people of the Book.’”
For the next three years, Lillie tried to come at least once a week to read to Winston.
However, age continued to take its toll; she tired easily and her eyes began to fail. Infrequently,
when Sarah would visit, Lillie would accompany her and spend an hour or so with the little boy.
By this time, if she struggled with a word, Winston would laugh and fill in the blanks. It became
a game.
Shortly after Winston’s fifth birthday, Lillie suffered several small strokes. She could no
longer care for herself even in a limited sense. Sarah, as much as she would have liked to help,

9

couldn’t. They explained that they had found a nursing home for her. They would move her
personal effects and some of the furniture. “Don’t fret. We will all be sure to visit you
frequently.”
On Sunday either Sarah or Sylvia would come by, sometimes together and sometimes
with Winston. Winston would insist that they bring along one of the Nap Time books. “I can read
to Nanna Lillie.” When Lillie found the strength, they would bring her into the sitting room and
make her comfortable in a recliner with her afghan spread across her lap.
Once or twice when Sylvia came with Winston, Lillie looked from one to the other,
smiled, and said, “Sarah, how nice of you to come with little Joanie.”
Winston was puzzled until his mother explained that when she was little, Nanny Lillie
used to call her ‘Little Joanie.’ “She’s confused and thinks I’m your Grandmother Sarah and you
are I. Her eyes are not that good.”
Winston said, “That’s funny,” and went along with the joke. When they left after the next
visit he asked, “Mommy, were you also read Nap Time stories?”
“Yes, sweetie, Nanna started reading these to Grandma Sarah years and years ago.”
“That’s lot of years, isn’t it?”
“Yes, a lot of years.”
Six months later, Lillie suffered another stroke. The home called and said they thought
the end was near. “She sleeps on and off all day.”
Both families came and were told that Lillie had indicated that she wished to sit up. They
had brought her into the parlor. She was dozing in the recliner, the afghan pulled up across her
chest. She sensed their presence, opened her eyes, and smiled. Without saying a word, Winston

10

moved to her side and opened the book he had hugged to his chest on the ride over. He opened it
and began reading, “Let Nanny sleep. It’s been a long day and she’s tired.”

11


