She hates the smell of Calvin Klein and loves the taste of
whiskey with ginger ale. She tells her friends they can go on
without her, that she will pass on the bar with cheap beer along
Greek Row and head straight for Main Street and the half-priced
liquor that calms her. The friends don’t argue, they raise their
hands and cheer at others on the bar patio leaving one person
for six. She adjusts her shoulder bag; small, brown leather with
the word paradigm sewn in along the curve of the clasp. She
glances at her phone and sends a quick text to Alan who may
already be at the bar. More texts are sent to people who are
just names on a screen and she slides the phone back in her
pocket and wraps her hands around the single shoulder strap.
The time is seven, nearing eight, and the sun is holding
tight to the rolling hills of the Palouse with deep orange
edging to the spectrum of red. There is a breeze from the south
that skirts brown leaves across the asphalt, scratching and
dragging in circular momentum like tiny tornadoes across a
scaled down Kansas. In the north, away from the coasts of
California and minimal chill of winter, there are no dunes of

2

sand but hills that stretch in all directions, blankets ruffled
and changed between colors of green, brown, and blinding white
that sheets over rooftops and fences.
Houses tower above her as she makes her way down the row,
the breeze pushing against her rust yellow cardigan and whipping
at her brown hair. Three of the houses have third floor
balconies and there are groups of men on each. Some are
shirtless despite the breeze and take time lighting tiki torches
around the balcony perimeter. She slows her pace in front of
these houses listening for a whistle or shout between the sound
of scattering leaves and the humming of bass behind walls. By
the time she reaches the bottom of the hill, houses out of sight
and only a faint murmur of conversation carrying downwind, her
phone is out and she is sending a message to Alan, who has yet
to respond to her last text.
Cars are far and few between as she waits for the crosswalk
to flash green and grant passage. In these minutes of waiting
she thinks about the studio project she has been working on, the
texture of wood as she carves into it, the way the lines change
as she shifts from long, forced strokes to short, jagged tares,
and the smooth sensation of the roller as it covers the wood
with ink.
The light turns green and she crosses, keeping her eyes to
the east and the unlit road leading to the bars. In the distance

3

lights shift yellows to reds and a scattering of people exit a
restaurant and walk along the unlit streets toward new
destinations. She checks her phone and sees a response from
Alan. Slowing her pace she digests the words I’ll stop by before
responding with a single great.
If he doesn’t show she knows she can try her luck with a
stranger. Sitting on a barstool, she would order a drink and
wait for an approach and a number. It wouldn’t take her long, at
least when she envisions it in her mind: the approach of a
stranger emerging from the crowd of unnamed faces, imprinting
himself in her line of sight. The man in her mind has a vague
existence, a build and expression created from the assimilation
of the men she’s taken home, the men she’s eyed, and the men
she’s seen scrolling through her Tumblr feed. She slides the
phone back in her pocket confident in the night’s progression.
On the opposite side of the street a man in blue Patagonia
waves her way.
“Abigail!” He makes a motion to cross the street, but
pauses, taking a second before stepping back onto the cement.
She watches this, not fully turning in his direction, but
partially shifting her body toward him. The road between them is
darkening, lit only by the remaining light from the hills. Three
nights ago they maneuvered to her apartment together,
intoxicated and fumbling with the keys attached to her

4

university lanyard. In the morning he left his number scrawled
on her whiteboard and avoided writing anything else. She saved
it in her phone as 4/13.
“How are you?” She says while throwing a wave in return.
Abigail tries to remember his name but jumps between Patagonia
and April 13th. When they encountered each other she had been
three drinks deep and on her way through a fourth. There had
been no Patagonia, instead he approached her with a shirt that
was pressed tight against his chest. There were words spelling
out the name of some triathlon and she eyed it before eyeing his
face; patches of blond scruff ending below the cheekbone. At
that point she made up her mind to take him home. Somewhere in
there his name was placed aside and somewhere in the drunk, dark
fumblings it was lost.
“Good!” He replies and appears to hesitate over more words
and Abigail wonders if he’s realized how awkward this is for
both of them.
“Good,” Abigail says, quieter, and Patagonia raises a
single hand and nods, speaking a sentence that fails to cross
the road. She proceeds downtown with one hand resting on the leg
of her jean, tracing the outline of her phone with gentle
fingers.

5

Alan is absent from the front bar so she walks upstairs to
the lounges. She holds her cardigan in her hand and takes note
of the crowd, men near her age sitting at tables with their
friends, men older but not too old, and boys just past the cusp
of twenty-one. She memorizes the ones that stand out, the ones
who turn her way as she passes. The lounges are half full with
people still waiting for others and some faces she recognizes
from classes of present and past. A girl in the lounge to her
right, the lounge with tattered blue velvet upholstery, glances
up, makes eye contact then rushes her gaze down to the green
drink in her hands. Her name is Madison and she frees a hand to
wipe the growing condensation on her pantleg: black fabric,
tight, fitted. Her blond hair is pinned back in a bun with
several strands hanging out and draping against the curve of her
neck. Like Madison, Abigail averts her gaze, focusing now on her
surroundings and looking for a specific face against the
seating.
There is no Alan and so she makes her way back to the bar
downstairs and takes a seat. The bartender is busy with another
order so she runs her hands through the hair near her temples
and undoes the ponytail letting it fall along her shoulders. She
feels as though there are looks coming her way but she does not
turn, instead she leans against the counter with eyes vexed on

6

the bottles of liquor. She will look later, casually, as though
she had no idea.
The wood in front of her is lacquered and scuffed from the
sliding of glass and everyday hustle of bar life. She runs her
hands over it and dreams of carving into it with her tools,
longing for the smell of wood, the scratch of splinters and the
staining of ink. Three projects ago she had made a print with a
similar wood; carving in small details of a woman’s décolletage,
the bones of her sternum pushing against tight skin and the
outline of breasts, small, loose but confined by wood. It had
taken her three days before she rolled the ink across the raised
and lowered surface and made her first test print. She worked on
the print between classes and work study, before lunches and
during phone conversations with family across states. The main
lines of her figure came out as desired but there were lines
around the sternum that curved in directions that looked like
claws, not lines from bones pressed against skin. She spent
several hours after, carving away her mistakes until the print
was satisfactory and she could close her eyes and rest. She fell
asleep on wood shavings, arms limp across the fresh paint, the
ink clinging to the soft hairs along them.
The bartender breaks her thoughts and she traces her
pointer finger along the wood in a pattern while giving her
order.

7

“Jameson and ginger ale, double.”
He begins to pour the drink and she turns her head to
examine her surroundings once more; expecting to catch someone
looking her way but finding only friends wrapped in conversation
and heads illuminated by phone screens. The bartender pushes a
double Jameson and ginger ale in front of her and Abigail turns
her attention back to the bar with a smile and a thank you. She
presses her lips to the thin green straw but doesn’t drink,
instead she thinks about the chase: the moment of pleasure that
comes from obtaining the desire and the slow realization of
normalcy that comes after bringing the valued down to
indifference. With her teeth she plays with the tip of the
straw, edging the pursuit to a close.
“Long Island Ice Tea, Bill style.”
Abigail shifts her eyes to the right and sees Madison
leaning over the counter to the bartender. She lets the straw go
and leans away from her drink and the bar. Madison takes note of
this by glancing to her left but still continues to lean and
address the bartender. “I’ll close out. Thank you.” She signs
her check and takes a seat. “Gail,” Madison says while grasping
a straw between her fingers.
“It’s called a Bill Zinger.”
“I remembered that after I ordered.”

8

Madison takes a sip. They sit in a period of silence and
Abigail wraps her lips around the straw again, this time,
without pause, she drinks. She thinks about printmaking studio
and the way Madison approached her on the first day, sitting
next to her and inquiring about her art. For the first few days
they continued this communication; working away from
acquaintanceship and toward some form of artistic alliance. Then
the projects began and Abigail saw glimpses of Madison’s vision
and in turn saw glimpses of Madison as a whole. It made her feel
sick.
Abigail looks around the bar once more more and notices the
glances of a man with a teal Neff beanie. “Did you ever rework
that Last Supper print?” She asks Madison while maintaining eye
contact with Neff.
“No.” And after a moment in which Madison takes down more
of her drink, she adds, “I got a passing grade on it. No need to
revise.” Abigail finds herself taking an extended drink of her
whiskey with eyes locked on Neff and voice speaking to
Madison.
“Are you thinking about taking the advanced class?” She
waits for an answer but hears nothing. The whiskey finished, she
removes her eyes from Neff and looks at Madison. “Are you
thinking about taking the advanced class?” The repetition adds a
tone that is harder, more pressed with truth.

9

Madison’s hands let go of the drink and she says with eyes
aimed at the rows of liquor bottles, “I nodded for christsake.
Why wouldn’t I?”
Abigail restrains her words behind lips, tongue pressing
against the backs of her front teeth, sliding across the uneven
positioning. In her response Abigail can see the final portfolio
of work Madison submitted, the carvings and prints compiled over
weeks of studio and the typed artist statement that mentioned a
search for divinity and consumption of media. What Abigail sees
most in the response is the dismissal of practice, of craft and
the abortion of talent left to wither for a passing grade.
Abigail thinks about what she knows, thinks about how
Madison knows nothing, how Madison took up space during
critiques with work that showed no improvement, no craft. She
thinks about the Raymond Carver interview she read while sitting
cross-legged on the kitchen counter waiting for her pad thai to
finish. She thinks about the way he admits that you want your
friends to do well and produce the best they can. About the way
he admits that there will always be this sense of dread that
maybe they won't make it in life and that there is nothing you
can really do about it. She thinks about the way the pad thai
tasted and the way she realized you can’t surround yourself with
failures.

10

“You know,” Madison says with an elbow on the bar, “it’s
cheaper to order a whisky ginger.” She has her index finger
placed on the tip of the straw, pressing up and down and
clattering the ice against the glass.
“Why does it have to be cheap?”
“It doesn’t.”
Abigail receives a second drink and laughs; she can’t help
it. She notices a silence spill over the conversation and she
can’t think of another word to waste. She takes her drink and
leaves the bar for the lounges. She pulls her phone out of her
pocket and sees no replies from Alan. Madison does not move, she
remains at the bar, silent and surrounded by strangers. Abigail
checks for teal movement in her peripherals, for the start of a
chase, for the start of her night, but catches nothing and finds
an empty seat against tattered blue velvet.
Her third drink is at its final sip when a man approaches.
He’s wearing shorts despite the mid spring chill and the skin
around his calves is firm. She moves her eyes and takes him in,
the shirt, the watch, the dark stubble that appears to have
recently grown in. He sits down smiling and places a hand on her
knee, talks about how beautiful she is.
She’s smiling and saying some words back to him. Her drink
is gone and he’s already rising up to buy another. She grabs his

11

arm and feels the tight skin. He insists. She’s playful and says
she can get it herself and they argue for a moment, smiling, and
she gives in. He leaves. She grabs her phone and messages Alan,
asshole. The man in shorts is back with two Jagerbombs. They are
smiling together and counting in unison. Three and two and one.

Cold. She can’t feel the fabric of her cardigan. She’s
sitting, leaned against a wall, breathing. Her hands fumble at
her waist and she feels the familiar texture of leather.
Paradigm. Her hair is hanging against her face and it feels
damp. The floor beneath her is cement. The texture behind her is
brick. Voices distant with music pulsing. She is not alone;
warmth wraps an arm around her and helps her up. She rolls her
head onto a shoulder and takes staggered steps. There is a
smell, a smell she hates and she rolls her head in the opposite
direction. Off balance, she tumbles, hits the cement. A voice.
She can only focus on the rough, cold of the cement and the
smell of scuffed rubber and tracked dirt. There is warmth around
her waist again but she swats it off wanting to press closer to
the cold. It stings. She can feel. Two voices now and she looks
toward it, the sound, and sees the street, sees two sets of
legs, sees lights and sees the stars. She’s never seen them so
beautiful before, the way they blur into the sky like mini
etchings across black wood. It is everything. Warmth draws near

12

then pulls back. There are three stars catching her eye, they
stream together like a long carving of light. Her left hand
mimics the motion it would take to make that carving. A set of
legs move in front of the light and she claws at them, her nails
ripping at exposed skin. She screams as her hand is slammed into
the cement, pressed down by the weight of one person, the uneven
pattern of a shoe imprinting itself on the back of her hand. The
shoes twists, grinding her hand, tearing skin. The cement
stings. The air stings. She screams. The stars are in a frenzy
above and the shoe releases. She brings it close to her body,
tight against her chest. A set of legs, one bleeding, is on the
ground now, another with black boots and fabric standing by.
Water blurs the stars even more. Warmth pulls her up, struggles.
She wants the cold. Her hand burns. She can’t focus on sight.
She closes her eyes. There is a voice, softer, and the air
smells sweet. Hair, foreign, is brushing against her temple. The
back of her eyelids are imprinted with the light of fading stars
and she struggles to keep them lit. Her free hand grazes a leg,
not hers, different jeans, tighter. Movement is stopped. She is
leaned against a wall, different texture, and hears the rustling
of a bag being searched. There is the sound of keys and a click
of metal. A door opens. Her door. A door. Any door. She leans
into a mass and inhales. The breeze is gone. She can’t feel it

13

on her skin. The air is still. She opens her eyes and makes out
nothing. She wants her phone. She wants.


