Its’s been 81 days and 147 nights that I’ve been living in heaven. In heaven, the nights
are spread out through the days. Sometimes, there will be 3 nights in one day, and on other days,
there’ll be 21 nights. It all depends on when the sky feels tired. We don’t know when the days
end, only when they begin. When a new day begins, it is broadcast on Channel 5 News. A single
still frame with a blinding red light flashes and stays up for about twelve seconds for every new
day. It says “NEW DAY STARTING” in bold 12pt times new roman. During those twelve
seconds, a man’s voice is played to repeat saying “what a shame.” It is heard four full times, and
on the fifth repeat, it cuts out before the word shame is heard.
Upon moving to heaven, I was placed in an apartment with one room that was completely
bare all except for a small television that I found in the corner. This room functions as my living
room, bedroom, driveway, grocery store, and tennis court. There’s a kitchen and bathroom in
there too. I am fond of the tennis court in my apartment, but I would have preferred something
else. I don’t really play tennis, so it is rather a place where I go to feel alone and reflect rather
than exercise. As of lately, I have been growing a garden in the middle of the tennis court. I’d
always had a vegetable garden before I came to heaven. It doesn’t feel like home without one,
and the vegetables are doing better than I thought they would, considering I planted them in
concrete. The squash has been growing up to be so beautiful. I don’t really have the option of
playing tennis anyways because I don’t know how. Before I started the garden, I put up a couple
of online listings desperately looking for a coach so I could at least put the court to its intended
use, and eventually, I did find one. I heard a knock at the door and opened it to a man in a suit
carrying a briefcase. The first time he came over, he said that he was very concerned about me.
Why are you concerned about me? I asked. You just don’t look like someone who’d play tennis

2
very well, he said back in a voice that sounded all too familiar. Do I know you from somewhere
else? I asked. No, he said. You don’t. And then he left. It was the quickest that someone had ever
given up on me. It made me feel insecure, so I put away my interest in learning how to play
tennis. Clearly I can’t even look the part, and that matters. The second time he came over, it was
unannounced. I found him knocking at the door, wearing a suit and carrying a briefcase, as he
had before, but he had his mouth stitched shut spoke with his eyes. He would roll them back in
his head until paper fed out in tears, much like a receipt. It’d come printed out in motor oil with
text in bold 12pt times new roman that, when read, had me hearing his voice speaking to me
inside my head. When he came over that time, his ink cartridge was getting low, so the voice in
my head was very quiet.

Dear you,
You are absolutely hopeless.
Sincerely,
Us

He cried this letter out of his eyes, which I kept and put away in the nightstand beside my
bed. This man wore a suit, and never has anyone in a suit been wrong about anything. The
rejection hurt my feelings a great deal. I used to talk about my problems to my vegetable garden.
They were always there for me, but I realized that I couldn’t put all of my emotional baggage on
them anymore. I was very depressed until I turned around and looked in the mirror and made a
friend. I’m not really sure who that person is, but I always know where to find them and they’ll
always listen.

3
When I moved into my one-bedroom apartment, the television that I found in the corner
was already on and tuned to Channel 5 News, but it wasn’t plugged into the wall. Come to find,
it wasn’t even run through electricity. There wasn’t a power switch or a way to turn the device
off, and there was no way to change the station. The television was found to be so heavy that it
could not be physically moved at all. It was even indestructible. For instance, there was a time
when I had a fight happen in the kitchen between the air and myself. I was mad at the air because
I found out that it wasn’t paying rent. I agreed to let it stay under the promise that it’d help with
the apartment bills. I got angry and I kicked the air and I punched the air until it was bleeding on
the ground, but it kept getting up and fighting back. The spectacle attracted hundreds of citizens
who came to watch the violence unfold. They flooded into my apartment and set up bleachers.
Some time in, one man in the crowd wanted to take part. He fired a gun into the air, killing it.
The bullet went right through, going on to hit the television’s monitor, which was innocently
sitting behind. The bullet bounced off and combusted, left spread around in smithereens of dust.
A grave was set up for the bullet and a funeral took place three days later. The ash was collected
and dusted over the sky from a cloud, bringing with it a beautiful meteor shower.
I hear the routine “what a shame” playing from the corner of my one-bedroom apartment,
signaling that a new day is starting. I can hear it all the way from the tennis court, where I am
watering my garden. It’s my 82nd day in heaven. The morning news airs after the broadcast of
“NEW DAY STARTING,” and I always try to catch the first Channel 5 News report of the day.
I’m a good citizen. Usually they start with the weather and then move on to the new news.
Everyone should keep up with the new news. Yesterday, a woman was kicked out of heaven for
swearing with the voice in her head. She was sent to hell. Good riddance. I walk around into the
living room as I hear the second-to-final repeat playing to find that the television is off. I hear a

4
knock at the door and open it up to the man with the stitched mouth. He’s found a way to speak
aloud without a voice. “What a shame,” he says, “what a –” he stops mid-sentence. I hear the
word “shame” play in my head. His suit is well-tailored. His briefcase is leather. I want to look
like the kind of person who is right about everything. But I don’t. I know you. No, you don’t. He
walks in and turns the television on, tuning into Channel 6 News. “You Are Absolutely
Hopeless” plays from the television and the screen flashes out into a mirror. I look in and see a
man in a suit talking to me with his eyes. I don’t know who you are. Yes, you do. No, I don’t.
The mirror flashes out into a blinding red light. “NEW DAY STARTING.”


