Brandon  rolls  in  right  at  opening,  not  one  minute  before.    His  head  is  
pounding,  but  on  Sunday,  with  a  double  in  front  of  him,  twelve  grueling  hours  inside  
the  bar,  his  only  chance  of  survival  is  the  six  extra  strength  liqui-­‐gel  Aspirin  he  
swallowed  before  leaving  his  apartment.      
Rubbing  his  temples,  Brandon  starts  to  worry.    Shit  better  start  kicking  in  
soon.  
Fuck  me,  he  thinks.    Why  did  I  drink  so  much  last  night?  
If  he  had  an  answer  for  that  recurring  question  Brandon  figures  he  could  
resolve  much  more  pressing  concerns  (rent,  junior  college,  finding  a  girlfriend).    But  
for  now,  drearily  recounting  how  many  shots  he  downed  before  blacking  out,  
Brandon  focuses  on  the  present.    He  has  to  get  the  bar  open.  
Unlocking  the  dead  bolt  and  shouldering  open  the  heavy  steel  door,  Brandon  
is  confronted  by  the  smell  of  stale  beer.    Last  night  was  a  big  one,  and  although  the  
bar  always  smelled,  the  reek  of  dried  Natural  Light  and  second-­‐hand  smoke  makes  
Brandon  wretch.  
Where  in  the  hell  was  that  Aspirin?  

  
Fifteen  minutes  after  opening,  before  he  has  even  filled  the  bar  sinks,  

working  instead  on  removing  sticky  residue  from  the  wooden  veneer  of  the  bar,  the  
door  opens  and  Brandon  is  joined  by  the  first  of  his  Sunday  company.  
“Morning  Dave.    Natty  Light?”  
Dave  doesn’t  answer.    Brandon  didn’t  have  to  ask.    He  pops  the  cap  off  the  
brown  bottle  and  places  the  beer  on  a  Nascar  napkin  in  front  of  Dave.      
Although  only  eleven,  Dave  struggles  with  his  posture,  his  head  hanging  even  
with  his  shoulders,  the  lights  behind  him  casting  deep  shadows  into  the  U-­‐shaped  
pit  of  the  bar.      
Dave  takes  a  long  swig  and  nods  at  Brandon,  the  only  thanks  he’ll  get.  
Five  minutes  after  Dave  comes  Becky.    And  then  Steve.    And  then  Dianne.    
June  is  running  late  but  Brandon  doesn’t  worry.    Five  years  working  at  the  VFW  and  
June  has  never  missed  a  Sunday  appointment.  
Steve  grabs  a  seat  next  to  Dave,  neither  men  acknowledging  their  thirty  years  
of  friendship.    Dave  grants  Steve  a  gruff  mumble,  a  windfall  in  Dave  speak,  and  Steve  
tips  his  beer  in  acknowledgement,  their  language  coded  but  to  the  most  seasoned  of  
drinkers.  
Becky  wracks  a  game  of  pool  while  Dianne  grabs  a  seat  on  the  far  side  of  the  
bar.    All  four  patrons  wear  light  colored  jean  jackets,  marked  by  mysterious  stains  
and  random  cigarette  burns.      
Dave’s  jacket  has  a  Vietnam  Veterans  patch  on  the  left  shoulder,  frayed  and  
peeling  back  as  the  glue’s  hold  has  softened  over  the  years.    Steve  has  a  motorcycle  

  

3  

logo  on  the  back  of  his,  The  Vipers,  some  club  to  whom  he  never  belonged.    Becky  
has  a  pack  of  Virginia  Slims,  100  length,  tucked  into  her  rolled  up  sleeve.      
They  wear  their  uniforms  well.    Matching  colors.    The  home  team  of  the  VFW.  
  Well  hell,  Brandon  wonders,  if  they’re  the  home  team  does  that  make  me  
coach?    A  poor  one  if  that’s  the  case.    Brandon  knows  his  regular’s  favorite  drinks,  
but  beyond  that  casual  memory  his  familiarity  falls  away.    
Although  Brandon  has  been  there  with  each  one  of  them  for  birthdays’  and  
anniversary’s,  Super  Bowls  and  state  championships,  nights  filled  with  Alabama  
Slammers  and  stories  of  how  things  used  to  be,  he  has  no  clue  how  old  his  regulars  
are.    They  look  ancient,  wrinkle  lines  marking  their  faces,  lines  that  run  like  
topographical  maps  of  mountains  no  one  bothered  to  name.  
Brandon  wonders  how  much  of  that  wear  is  a  condition  of  circumstance,  the  
weight  of  life  versus  the  time  of  being.    Surely  by  now  each  one  of  them  had  earned  
the  right  to  appear  so  worn,  but  Brandon  wonders  at  how  great  a  cost.  
Placing  a  Screwdriver  in  front  of  Dianne,  Brandon  wishes  her  good  morning  
as  she  presses  her  lips  against  the  soft  gummy  flesh  where  her  bottom  row  of  teeth  
used  to  be.    Dianne  doesn’t  need  the  drink.    She  needs  a  lobotomy  and  a  comfy  chair  
to  finish  her  days  in  long  before  she  needs  another  drink,  but  who  in  the  hell  was  he  
to  judge.  
“Did  you  close  last  night  Brandon?”  Diane  slurs  in  her  lazy,  toothless  tone.    
“Ronny  told  me  things  got  crazy.    Police  got  called  and  everything”.  

  

4  
Brandon  shakes  his  head  no  and  tells  Dianne  he  had  the  night  off.    He  did  

spend  his  evening  inside  the  bar,  but  after  dipping  below  the  surface  of  the  booze  he  
lost  track  of  time  and  had  no  idea  when  he’d  driven  home.  
After  cracking  the  rack  on  the  pool  table,  a  poor  shot  that  barely  breaks  the  
balls,  Becky  chimes  in.  
“God  damn  it  Dianne,  you  know  why  they  got  crazy  last  night.    With  CJ  and  
Frankie  and  June  all  showing  up  at  the  same  time.    You  know  how  they  get  this  time  
of  year.    Lucky  things  weren’t  worse  all  factors  considering.”      
Becky  takes  another  shot,  leaning  in  close  and  feigning  expertise.    When  the  
cue  ball  splits  into  the  corner  pocket  she  curses  and  chalks  her  stick,  pointing  it  at  
Dianne.  
“You  best  keep  your  mouth  shut  about  last  night  once  June  gets  here  if  you  
know  what’s  good  for  you.    She  don’t  need  none  of  us  bringing  up  that  mess.”  
Becky  might  have  been  full  of  shit  ninety-­‐nine  percent  of  the  time,  but  as  
Brandon  poured  scouring  water  into  the  first  of  his  three  bar  sinks,  he  knew  she  was  
right.  
Ryan  Lopez.    That  was  why  he’d  gotten  so  drunk  last  night.    It  was  why  things  
had  gotten  so  crazy.      
Ryan  was  why  June  was  running  late.  
1:00  P.M.  
When  June  finally  arrives  her  expectant  crowd  has  grown.    Randy  and  Chewy  
and  Yvette  are  all  here,  and  although  they’ve  joined  the  VFW  crowd  later  then  their  
early  bird  counterparts,  they’re  doing  their  best  to  catch  up.      

  

5  
For  his  part,  Dave  is  well  on  his  way  to  blacking  out  and  saying  something  

racist.    Brandon  hands  him  another  Natty  Light  and  tries  to  make  out  what  he  
mumbles  under  his  breath.    It’s  now  only  a  matter  of  time.  
Dianne  sits  down  across  from  Dave  and  Steve,  reclaiming  her  place  after  
losing  in  one  of  the  worst  games  of  pool  Brandon  ever  saw.    Deep  into  her  fourth  
screwdriver,  she  looks  like  her  eyes  might  roll  back  in  her  head  if  she  takes  but  one  
drink  more.  
When  the  heavy  steel  door  bangs  shut,  lighting  bolts  of  pain  shoot  through  
Brandon’s  temples.    Normally  he  would’ve  said  something,  shouting  at  the  offender  
for  slamming  the  door,  but  he  doesn’t  get  angry.      
June,  poor  woman,  can’t  be  bothered  for  slamming  doors  today.  
“Howdy  June,”  Brandon  treads  lightly,  “How  you  feeling?”  
June  tries  to  smile  and  hoarsely  whispers  that  she  is  doing  ok  but  Brandon  
knows  better.  
At  the  VFW,  Brandon  takes  pride  in  his  many  roles.    Depending  on  the  day,  on  
the  bottle,  his  job  requires  many  hats.    He  is  part  bartender,  part  janitor,  part  
referee,  and  full  time  shrink.    And  although  he  dips  into  his  own  medicine  cabinet  far  
too  often,  he  knows  what  June  needs.      
Brandon  fills  the  prescription  and  hands  June  the  Seven  and  Seven,  on  the  
house  he  says,  as  she  stands  by  the  door  surveying  the  room.    Foul  medicine,  but  it’s  
the  only  cure  he  knows.  
Not  quite  sure  what  June  is  looking  at,  Brandon  joins  her  in  scanning  the  
room.    The  longer  he  has  spent  inside  the  bar  the  more  he’s  been  able  to  piece  things  

  

6  

together.    An  alcoholic’s  Rubik  Cube,  looking  around  at  the  neon  beer  signs  and  
framed  soldier’s  uniforms  Brandon  has  reconstructed  most  of  what  happened.  
Most  of  what  he  remembers  wasn’t  pretty.    The  night  started  out  normal  
enough,  but  by  the  time  it  was  over  there  had  been  shouting  matches,  at  least  one  
fist  fight,  and  enough  crying  to  last  him  for  good.    At  one  point  the  police  even  
showed  up,  knowing  all  the  participants  by  name,  trying  their  best  to  keep  from  
throwing  anyone  in  jail.      
At  the  center  of  it  had  been  June.    Now,  with  her  mid-­‐afternoon  arrival,  
Brandon  feared  what  lay  ahead.  
June  still  hasn’t  moved,  standing  by  the  door  like  she  might  choose  to  leave  
and  spend  her  Sunday  somewhere  other  than  the  VFW.    But  she  doesn’t  turn,  unable  
to  put  behind  her  the  tragedies  that  keep  her  coming  back.  
Despite  her  efforts  to  hide  how  she  feels,  June  looks  rough.    Even  still,  in  the  
half-­‐light  of  the  dying  bar  Brandon  can  see  the  beautiful  woman  who  once  lit  up  a  
room.    Her  black  hair,  straight  as  nails,  hangs  nearly  to  her  waist.    Her  soft,  brown  
eyes,  reddened  from  crying  and  smoke  and  Jim  Beam,  her  eyes  are  still  deep  enough  
to  make  any  man  stop  and  wonder.  
Who  were  you,  Brandon  often  thinks?    What  happened  to  make  you  so  sad?    
What  kept  you  from  getting  out?  
June  grabs  a  seat  by  herself  at  the  far  end  of  the  bar.    The  regulars  give  her  
wide  berth  until  the  medicine  settles  in.  
And  then  Brandon  remembers,  just  like  he  remembered  what  happened  the  
night  before.  

  

7  
Ryan.    Ryan  was  what  made  June  so  sad.  
3:00  
Dave  is  gone.    Ten  minutes  before  his  memorable  (predictable)  departure,  

after  chugging  two  Natty  Lights  in  rapid  succession  he  looks  up  at  Chewy  with  
liquored  malice.    Dave,  not  liking  what  he  sees,  yells  something  at  Chewy  and  
anyone  else  listening  about  wetbacks,  niggers,  and  “Fucking  Obama”,  slamming  
down  a  twenty,  his  exact  tab,  on  the  bar  when  finished.    His  exit  is  marked  by  the  
steel  door  banging  shut  for  the  second  time  that  afternoon.  
Chewy  breaks  the  tension  by  flipping  off  the  door  and  laughing.  
“Son  of  a  bitch,  everyone  here  knows  wetback  is  my  middle  name.    If  he  
wants  to  hurt  my  feelings  he’s  going  to  have  to  try  harder  than  that.”  
Chewy  goes  back  to  his  game  of  pool  as  everyone  chuckles  at  his  self-­‐
deprecating  jab.    Chewy  is  the  only  member  of  the  Sunday  gang  who  still  works,  
running  a  handy  man  business  around  town  patching  roofs  and  snaking  toilets  and  
raking  leaves.    In  the  winter  he  shovels  sidewalks.    On  more  than  one  occasion  he  
has  done  work  for  the  VFW.  
For  Chewy,  being  a  wetback  meant  having  a  job,  earning  an  income  instead  of  
leeching  off  someone  else.    Whether  it  was  an  elderly  mother’s  social  security  
account  or  a  girlfriend’s  disability  check,  most  of  the  regulars  at  the  VFW  had  
secured  income  that  didn’t  require  physical  labor.      
But  not  Chewy.    For  him,  having  a  job  meant  honor.    It  meant  not  relying  on  
anyone  but  himself,  but  considering  the  crowd,  shit,  the  whole  damn  town,  that  
distinction  meant  a  lot  less  than  it  used  to.  

  

8  
Dianne  has  moved  from  her  spot  at  the  bar  and  taken  up  residence  on  a  table  

near  the  restroom.    Her  head  is  down,  stringy,  grey  hair,  and  although  Brandon  can’t  
see  her  eyes  he  knows  she’s  sleeping.    If  Carly  his  manager  was  working  she’d  kick  
Dianne  out  if  she  couldn’t  stay  awake,  but  for  now  Brandon  doesn’t  have  the  heart.  
Behind  him,  a  more  interesting  conversation  demands  his  attention.  
Becky  is  long  over  pool,  finished  flirting  with  the  men  who  have  seen  her  
naked  and  taken  their  ride,  men  who  have  chosen  to  graze  elsewhere.    With  no  other  
distractions  Becky  has  chosen  to  break  her  own  advice  and  chat  with  June.  
“June  baby,  how  you  doing  this  afternoon?    I  heard  last  night  was  rough.    
Can’t  say  I  blame  anyone.    This  time  of  year  brings  back  bad  memories  for  us  all.    I  
just  want  you  to  know  that  if  you  ever  need  anything  you  know  you  can  come  to  
me.”  
Becky  belches  when  she  finishes  her  barroom  oath.    She  places  a  hand  
around  June’s  shoulder,  patting  her  back  softly  as  she  gulps  her  beer.    June  doesn’t  
speak.    She  doesn’t  look  over.    She  just  sits  and  shakes  her  head  and  drinks  her  beer.  
5:30  
After  patching  together  the  details  of  the  night  before,  the  ones  he  forgot  in  
his  haze  of  Jim  Beam  and  Budweiser,  Brandon  has  become  nervous.    CJ  and  Frankie  
haven’t  returned,  but  there  were  nearly  seven  hours  left  until  Brandon  closed  down.  
With  his  hangover  behind  him,  Brandon  pours  himself  a  drink  as  he  
continues  to  manage  the  room.    With  nothing  better  to  do  until  closing  he  watches  
his  heard  with  weary  eyes.  

  

9  
Several  other  regulars  have  made  their  way  to  and  from  the  bar.    Kimmy  and  

her  girlfriend  Charlene  have  joined  the  Sunday  milieu,  sitting  side-­‐by-­‐side  drinking  
red  beers  and  chasing  Grey  Dog  whiskey  straight  up.      
Chewy’s  wife  Cassandra  has  stopped  by  with  homemade  burritos,  green  chile  
and  Mexican  chorizo.    Chewy,  always  the  consummate  businessman,  has  sold  a  half-­‐
a-­‐dozen  burritos  to  the  hungry  patrons,  Brandon  included.      
Chewy  gives  a  burrito  to  June  at  no  cost.      
Becky  has  driven  Dianne  home,  a  relief  in  Brandon’s  mind,  returning  twenty  
minutes  later  reeking  of  cheap  weed  and  cigarettes.    Brandon  should’ve  said  
something  to  her  about  driving,  but  on  that  field  he  had  no  room  to  talk.  
All  of  the  regulars,  more  empathetic  after  each  drink,  have  stopped  by  to  
check  in  on  June.    Like  doctors  making  their  rounds,  each  member  of  the  VFW  family  
has  thoughts  on  how  to  handle  grief,  how  best  June  can  focus  on  the  future.  
For  his  part  Brandon  has  said  little  to  June  other  than  asking  if  she  would  like  
another.    But  several  times,  while  polishing  bottles  or  restocking  the  cooler,  he  has  
caught  her  eye.    June  looks  at  him  and  Brandon  knows,  feels  it  in  his  gut,  that  she  
wouldn’t  mind  a  word.  
He  knew  Ryan  better  than  any  of  the  others.    He  knew  her  son  before  he  died.  
6:17  
Bored  by  the  chatter  of  flies,  Brandon  turns  on  the  stereo  after  no  one  shows  
interest  in  feeding  the  jukebox  quarters.    Settling  on  classic  rock,  he  nervously  eyes  
the  door  and  wonders  if  Frankie  and  CJ  will  appear.  

  

10  
The  daylong  hangover  after  such  a  rough  night  should’ve  been  enough  to  

keep  them  away,  but  memory  seemed  selective  in  influencing  decisions.    Memory  
wouldn’t  let  them  forget,  but  memory  wouldn’t  let  them  go.          
Remembering  long  before  his  hazy  night  prior,  back  before  he’d  become  a  
fixture  at  the  VFW,  Brandon  looked  back  at  where  he’d  come  from  as  he  washed  
chipped  pint  glasses  in  the  lukewarm  water.    He  looked  back  at  where  he’d  been  
when  Ryan  died.  
Brandon  remembered  that  weekend  eight  years  past  so  clearly.    It  had  been  
eight  years  since  Ryan  passed  away.    Eight  years  to  the  weekend.    Eight  years  to  the  
day.    After  so  much  time  Brandon  wouldn’t  have  been  able  to  remember  the  exact  
anniversary  if  it  hadn’t  fallen  on  such  a  predictable  date,  but  every  year  graduation  
weekend  came  and  went.      
For  Brandon,  graduation  weekend  stood  as  a  passage  of  time,  the  distance  
between  what  could’ve  been  and  what  turned  out  to  be.    But  for  June  and  Frankie  
and  anyone  else  who  remembered  Ryan,  it  stood  as  a  memorial  to  so  much  more.    
As  the  town  died  and  people  moved  elsewhere  the  graduating  classes  at  the  
high  school  grew  smaller  and  smaller.    Eight  years  prior  there  had  been  fifty-­‐four  
kids  in  Brandon’s  class,  but  this  year’s  crop,  the  reason  for  the  bar’s  busy  weekend,  
saw  only  twenty-­‐two  students  walk  across  an  empty  stage.      
Remembering  his  own  Saturday  morning  in  May,  sweating  bullets  inside  the  
packed  gymnasium,  the  same  one  he’d  grown  up  playing  youth  basketball  in,  
Brandon  remembered  how  it  felt  being  overshadowed  by  cheers  for  another.    Ryan  

  

11  

Lopez,  June  and  Frankie’s  Lopez’s  only  child,  had  been  the  big  fish  that  day.    He  was  
the  star,  the  bright  spot  of  hope  that  kept  everyone  believing.  
Earlier  that  year  Ryan  had  led  them  all,  Brandon  included,  to  a  baseball  state  
championship.    In  the  flash  of  newspaper  bulbs  and  trophy  celebrations  he’d  made  
everyone  forget,  if  only  for  a  moment,  those  things  that  kept  them  down.  
Ryan  wasn’t  the  smartest  kid.    Michelle  Montoya  took  that  honor,  graduating  
valedictorian  with  a  4.165  GPA  and  her  own  chance  of  getting  out,  but  Ryan  had  
gotten  the  grades  he  needed.    Paired  with  his  ace  pitching  skills  he’d  been  offered  a  
scholarship  to  play  baseball  at  Oklahoma  State.      
After  the  short  graduation  ceremony  that  day  passed  by  in  a  blur.    The  VFW,  
still  ran  by  Carly,  still  manned  by  the  same  drunks  who  paid  the  bills,  was  filled  to  
capacity  as  one  party  after  another  came  and  went.  
Brandon  remembered  his  time  at  the  VFW,  how  graduates  were  passed  
secret  beers  in  white  Styrofoam  cups.    Knowing  drunks,  experts  on  the  ways  of  the  
world,  slipped  them  shots  and  told  them  how  much  lay  in  store.      
One  piece  of  advice  they  didn’t  hand  out,  however,  was  about  not  over  doing  
it.    By  ten  that  night  Brandon  had  puked  his  guts  out  in  the  alley  behind  the  bar.    But  
although  many  fell  classmates  followed  a  similar  path,  Ryan  had  taken  a  different  
route.    Ryan  hadn’t  partaken  in  any  of  the  daytime  drinking.    A  town  celebrity,  he  
had  responsibilities,  commitments  to  honor  as  he  made  his  way  across  town.      
In  a  rolling  caravan  June  and  Frankie  had  led  the  way  from  party  to  party  as  
Ryan  and  his  cousin  CJ  followed  in  tow.    With  Frankie  driving  June  and  CJ  driving  
Ryan,  the  plan  was  set  to  ensure  Ryan  had  a  DD  if  necessary.    

  

12  
If  only  Ryan  had  stuck  to  the  plan,  wondered  Brandon,  then  perhaps  June  

wouldn’t  be  manning  her  usual  post  the  bar,  far  too  deep  in  the  cups.  
Much  later  that  evening,  around  the  same  time  Brandon  was  emptying  his  
stomach  behind  the  VFW,  Ryan  had  finally  taken  a  drink.    Earlier  that  week  Frankie  
had  driven  all  the  way  to  Pueblo  to  buy  a  bottle  of  oak  aged  tequila.    After  the  
responsibilities  had  been  handled  and  June  had  gone  to  bed  he’d  given  the  bottle  to  
his  son  as  a  graduation  present,  telling  him  how  much  he  loved  him,  telling  him  to  
have  fun.  
The  rest  of  what  happened  that  night  was  told  and  retold,  recounted  at  first  
with  tears  and  stuttered  retellings  and  then  later  with  the  air  of  judgment  that  
comes  from  people  with  nothing  better  to  do  then  bask  in  the  downfall  of  those  who  
stood  taller.  
What  was  known,  however,  was  that  at  some  point  Ryan  decided  to  drive.    CJ,  
a  fuck  up  by  twenty-­‐one,  already  had  two  DUI’s  and  a  string  of  arrests  under  his  belt.    
Ryan  must  have  sounded  like  the  voice  of  reason  when  he  told  his  cousin  he  would  
drive.    It  must  have  sounded  like  the  right  thing  to  do.  
Sometime  around  midnight,  for  no  reason  other  than  the  half  bottle  of  
Tequila,  Ryan  lost  control  of  the  car  and  crashed  into  a  drainage  ditch  outside  of  
town.    Although  he’d  only  been  going  thirty  miles  an  hour  the  car  flipped  and  Ryan  
was  pinned  between  the  steering  wheel  and  his  seat.      
Unharmed,  CJ  had  been  able  to  wriggle  free.    Before  he  had  a  chance  to  make  
a  plan,  the  smoking  engine  caught  fire  with  Ryan  trapped  inside.      

  

13  
After  frantically  calling  911  CJ  tried  to  free  his  cousin.    He  smashed  the  

driver’s  window  with  a  kick  that  broke  his  foot  in  three  places,  sliced  his  arms  on  
the  shattered  glass,  and  ripped  at  the  seatbelt  until  the  car  was  wrapped  in  flames.    
When  the  sheriff  arrived  CJ  was  still  half  in/half  out  of  the  smoldering  
vehicle.    It  took  three  officers  to  pry  him  from  the  fireball,  the  smell  of  burning  flesh  
far  stronger  than  the  black  tinted  smoke.  
By  the  time  the  fire  department  arrived  there  was  nothing  to  do.    The  cops  
had  to  handcuff  CJ  to  the  ambulance  gurney,  screaming  to  be  released,  the  crispy  
flesh  of  his  forearms  oozing  pus  as  paramedics  tried  to  save  his  life.      
That  next  day,  waking  from  an  unfamiliar  hangover,  Brandon  remembered  
checking  his  phone  and  seeing  sixteen  missed  messages.    Many  said  different  things,  
but  the  intent  of  each  text  was  the  same.      
Ryan  Lopez  was  dead.  
One  week  later  the  funeral  came  and  went.    In  a  season  where  new  graduates  
should’ve  been  celebrating  and  making  plans  for  life  after  high  school  was  a  time  
filled  with  mourning.    The  realization  that  even  the  best  of  them  was  not  free  from  
life  came  far  too  early  for  the  class  of  2007.      
The  funeral  was  closed  casket.    Brandon  heard  from  Cody  Wilson  that  the  
only  thing  left  of  Ryan  was  his  skeleton  and  his  state  champion’s  ring.    Not  wanting  
to  believe  such  a  nightmare,  as  he  passed  the  casket  and  said  how  sorry  he  was  to  
June  and  Frankie  Brandon  pictured  the  kid  he’d  grown  up  with,  the  kid  who’d  found  
a  way  to  get  out.  

  

14  
After  a  brief  investigation  CJ  was  cleared  of  any  wrongdoings.    There  had  

been  a  short-­‐lived  search  into  who’d  purchased  the  tequila,  but  when  no  one  spoke  
up  the  police  allowed  the  family  to  return  to  the  grieving  process.  
One  month  later  June  filed  for  divorce.    With  Ryan  gone,  she  gave  up  and  
placed  blame  on  the  only  person  she  could.    June  knew  Frankie  had  given  the  bottle  
to  Ryan.    She  didn’t  turn  him  over  to  the  cops,  but  she  would  damn  sure  take  what  
he’d  done  to  the  grave.  
Brandon  looked  at  June  as  he  finished  washing  the  glasses.    Her  eyes  were  
bloodshot,  never  recovered  from  the  night  before.    She  was  no  longer  looking  at  
Brandon,  instead  staring  out  at  a  place  only  she  could  see.  
Looking  away  after  he  could  take  no  more,  Brandon  watched  his  people  wind  
down  the  night.    Chewy  made  his  rounds  before  leaving,  saying  goodbye  to  the  
Sunday  crowd  and  paying  his  tab.    As  Chewy  dug  for  cash  in  his  stained  Dickeys  
Brandon  took  a  long  sip  from  his  drink  as  he  looked  at  the  door.  
June  hadn’t  moved  in  some  time,  and  although  she  was  drunk  enough  to  call  
it  a  night,  Brandon  feared  she  was  holding  on.  
If  Frankie  was  coming  by,  June  was  damn  sure  not  going  to  miss  it.  
9:00  
With  only  two  hours  left  until  closing,  Brandon  starts  to  hope  that  Frankie  
and  CJ  were  no-­‐shows.  
He  was  so  close.  
Frankie  and  CJ  don’t  bust  into  the  bar.    Instead  they  are  quiet  and  respectful  
as  they  close  the  steel  door  behind  them.      

  

15  
The  bar  is  empty  as  it  has  been  all  day.    After  Chewy  left  Steve  and  Becky  

followed  in  short  order.    Randy  drove  Yvette  home,  and  now  only  Kimmy,  Charlene,  
and  June  remain.      
Kimmy  and  Charlene  are  busy  playing  pool,  rubbing  up  on  each  other  with  
schoolgirl  giggles  each  time  they  pass  at  the  table.    They  pause  their  game  when  the  
new  company  arrives.    Even  they  know  what  this  means.  
June  doesn’t  move  when  Frankie  appears.    She  only  looks  up  and  stares  as  he  
and  CJ  grab  a  seat  at  the  bar.  
“Evening  CJ,  Frankie.    What  can  I  get  you?”  
Brandon  wishes  there  was  someone  else  inside  the  bar.    Although  he  doesn’t  
believe  things  will  become  violent,  with  no  back  up  he  is  careful  with  every  word.  
Frankie  orders  a  Bud  and  CJ  asks  for  Beam.    When  he  drops  off  the  drinks  
Brandon  can  smell  alcohol  on  both  men’s  breath.    Their  appearance,  however,  is  
much  worse  then  their  smell.  
After  the  divorce  Frankie  fell  apart.    Before  the  tragedy  he’d  been  foreman  for  
the  town’s  utility  company,  but  he  was  fired  two  months  after  June  left.    Moving  in  
with  his  mother,  he’d  spent  the  last  eight  years  slowly  killing  himself  by  bottle.  
CJ  wore  his  scars  more  visibly.    After  the  fire  he’d  lost  his  right  arm  up  to  the  
elbow  and  three  fingers  on  his  left  hand  save  his  thumb  and  ring  finger.    Scars  
wrapped  all  the  way  to  his  face,  tightening  his  skin  and  making  him  look  like  he  was  
constantly  startled  to  see  you.    

  

16  
  “What  happened  to  you  last  night  Brandon,”  CJ  probes  as  his  remaining  two  

fingers  guide  the  whiskey  to  his  mouth.    “You  dipped  out  before  things  got  good.    
What,  you  worried  you  can’t  hang  no  more?”  
Brandon  tells  CJ  he  doesn’t  remember  much,  just  having  one  shot  too  many  
before  calling  it  a  night.    CJ  nods  as  he  places  the  drink  back  on  the  bar  but  Brandon  
suspects  he  doesn’t  like  the  answer.  
Although  the  pool  table  is  littered  with  balls  Kimmy  comes  up  and  asks  for  
her  tab.    When  CJ  tells  her  how  fine  she  looks  she  nods  but  doesn’t  respond.    CJ  
stares  at  her  like  a  mad  dog,  but  after  she  pays  he  lets  her  leave  in  peace.    Grabbing  
Charlene,  they  are  gone  without  a  second  glance.  
Breathing  in  the  tension  of  the  room,  Brandon  wishes  there  was  something  
he  could  do.    If  there  was  a  panic  button,  hell,  even  a  fire  alarm,  he  would’ve  yanked  
it  and  thanked  god  for  the  chance  to  flee.    But  he  was  stuck.    He  was  going  to  have  to  
see  things  through.  
After  only  five  minutes  Frankie  and  CJ  finish  their  drinks.    They  ask  for  
another  round  but  Brandon  wonders  if  he  should  cut  them  off.    CJ  looks  like  he  
hasn’t  slept  for  days,  skinny  and  mean  with  his  shoulders  pulled  back,  his  chest  
puffed  out.  
Frankie  doesn’t  look  mean,  but  he  doesn’t  look  right  either.    He  looks  so  tired,  
so  beaten  down,  that  Brandon  wonders  what  it  is  that  keeps  him  going.  
When  the  glass  mirror  behind  the  bar  explodes  into  a  million  pieces  Brandon  
jumps  and  screams.    Expecting  nearly  anything  behind  him,  all  Brandon  sees  is  June  
and  the  empty  stretch  of  bar  where  her  drink  had  been.  

  

17  
“You  had  to  come  back  in  here,  didn’t  you?    You  couldn’t  stay  at  your  

mother’s  and  finish  the  job?    Well,  fuck  you  Frankie.    Let’s  end  this  if  we  have  to.”  
June  slurs  her  words,  swaying  from  side  to  side  as  she  stares  at  her  ex.    Her  
eyes  are  wet  and  glassy  but  she  doesn’t  break  her  stare.  
“This  is  my  place”,  June  says  slapping  her  hand  on  the  bar,  “Mine.    You  
coming  in  here,  what  did  you  expect?”  
Brandon  starts  to  clear  his  throat,  stepping  up  to  the  front  of  the  bar  pit  so  he  
is  between  Frankie  and  June,  but  before  he  can  speak  CJ  cuts  him  off.  
“You  don’t  own  this  place  June.    Frankie  can  do  whatever  he  goddamn  likes.    
You  think  you  are  the  only  one  who  can  remember  Ryan.    You  think  you  are  the  only  
one  with  that  right?”  
CJ  slams  his  second  drink  and  holds  both  arms  in  the  air.    He  turns  slowly,  
parading  his  disfigurement.    June  feels  Ryan’s  death,  but  CJ  shows  her  how  he  lives  it  
everyday.  
Finding  his  courage,  Brandon  finally  butts  in.  
“Damn  it  June,  you  know  you’re  going  to  have  to  pay  for  that  mirror.    I’m  
closing  up  so  why  don’t  you  three  get  out  of  here.    I’ll  buy  your  tabs,  just  leave  and  
let  me  alone.”  
Brandon  places  his  hands  on  his  hips,  but  when  he  looks  back  at  forth  at  
Frankie  and  June  he  knows  they  aren’t  finished.  
“You  drinking  beer,  Frankie?    Why  don’t  you  drink  tequila?    If  you  liked  it  
enough  to  give  to  your  son  you  should  have  some  in  his  memory.”  

  

18  
Frankie  hasn’t  done  much  other  than  stare  at  the  bar  in  front  of  him.    As  he  

stands  up  Brandon  expects  the  worse,  but  when  he  see’s  tears  in  Frankie’s  eyes  
Brandon  breaks  at  the  pain  he  witnesses.  
“I’ll  be  gone  soon  enough  June,  but  before  I’m  done  I  want  you  to  remember  
something.”  
Frankie  speaks  like  he  is  delivering  a  eulogy,  slow  and  deliberate,  words  
meant  for  those  gone  and  those  soon  to  follow.    His  voice  is  clear,  filling  the  room  as  
he  looks  at  his  wife.  
“You  remember  that  year  we  drove  to  Santa  Fe  for  Christmas.    When  Ryan  
was  eleven?    We  bought  him  a  new  pair  of  baseball  shoes?    Do  you  remember  that  
trip?”  
June,  surprised  to  have  memory  thrown  in  her  direction,  stutters  with  no  
response.  
“We  took  Ryan  skiing,  first  time  any  of  us  had  ever  gone.    Later  that  evening  
we  sat  around  the  fire  and  Ryan  told  us  how  it  was  the  best  day  of  his  life.    Do  you  
remember  that  June,  because  I  do?”  
“You  know  I  gave  Ryan  that  bottle.    I  gave  it  to  him  because  I  loved  him  and  
because  I  wanted  him  to  have  some  fun.    I  remember  that  decision  everyday  of  my  
life,  from  the  moment  I  wake  up  to  the  moment  I  drink  myself  to  sleep,  but  what  
haunts  me  most  is  the  days  before.    Those  days  that  didn’t  go  wrong,  those  are  the  
one’s  I  can’t  forget.”  

  

19  
CJ  has  walked  to  the  door,  struggling  with  his  one  arm  to  get  it  open.    Once  he  

does  he  motions  at  Frankie,  telling  him  he’s  had  enough,  telling  him  it’s  time.    
Frankie  doesn’t  move,  waiting  for  June’s  response  before  he  can  let  go.  
“I  remember  that  day  Frankie,”  June  says  through  tears  of  her  own,  “but  I  
remember  Ryan’s  last  day  more.    You  say  you  remember,  but  I  pray  you  always  do.    I  
hope  you  never  forget  your  son  because  I  can’t.    I’ve  tried,  but  I  just  can’t.”  
  

“You  remember  that  Frankie,  what  you’ve  done  to  me.    You  remember.”    
11:00  P.M.  
Pulling  with  force,  Brandon  is  able  to  wedge  the  steel  door  shut  behind  him.  
It  didn’t  take  long  to  close  down.    Frankie  left  with  CJ,  unable  to  tell  June  how  

to  move  on.    When  she’d  left  her  driver’s  license  as  insurance  for  the  mirror  June  
followed  soon  after.  
Brandon  feels  exhaustion  creep  over  him  as  he  steps  into  the  night  air.    The  
six  drinks  he  had  during  his  shift  haven’t  left  him  drunk,  only  tired  and  worn  out.  
At  least  I  have  the  day  off  tomorrow,  Brandon  thinks  as  he  looks  up  at  the  
stars.    I  couldn’t  handle  another  one  of  those.  
Leaving  the  VFW,  Brandon  forgets  about  the  Natty  Lights  and  inflated  egos,  
the  dirty  bar  sinks  and  cracked  urinals.    It  will  all  be  waiting,  but  Brandon  is  glad  to  
be  free.      
Maybe  tomorrow  I  can  look  for  another  job.    Maybe  I  can  call  the  college  and  
see  about  registering.    Maybe.    We’ll  see  what  tomorrow  brings.  
Brandon  starts  his  car  and  leaves.      
The  End  


