Sonny’s  fingers  weren’t  supposed  to  be  frozen  along  this  particular  stretch  of  
highway,  at  this  particular  time  of  year.    As  he  stood  between  mile  markers  60  and  
61,  waiting  for  a  driver  to  set  aside  any  preconceived  notions  of  race,  baggage  and  
adolescent  strangers  looking  for  a  ride,  the  morning’s  vacant  mercury  that  nipped  at  
his  skin  did  little  to  lift  the  numbers  of  his  body  temperature,  as  well  as,  the  worth  of  
his  spirit.    Having  spent  the  night  underneath  the  Highway  30  overpass,  its  
unexpected  shelter  was  now  considered  a  luxury  when  compared  to  the  disregard  of  
Highway  78’s  northbound  travelers.    Jefferson  Jones,  Sonny  to  his  friends  and  family,  
blowed  harp  on  the  side  of  the  road  while  only  sticking  his  thumb  out  when  his  
intuition  told  him  that  the  driver  was  either  Black  like  him,  young  like  him  or  
chasing  a  dream  like  him.    When  the  ’45  Tudor  appeared  above  the  horizon  that  
stood  between  Sonny  and  yesterday’s  paid  homage  to  Tupelo,  Sonny  put  the  
harmonica  back  in  his  pocket,  blew  on  his  hands  and  stuck  his  thumb  out.  
“Where  you  headed?”    The  driver,  a  bit  older  and  whiter  than  would  normally  
qualify  as  a  potential  chauffer  leaned  over  and  asked.    Must  have  been  a  dreamer.  
“Memphis.”  Sonny  answered.    He  stood  and  spoke  with  the  perfect  balance  of  
humility  and  aspiration.    His  Sunday’s  best  adorned  and  worn  from  the  few  days  of  
traveling.  
“Well,  hop  in,  that’s  exactly  where  we’re  going.”  Sonny  poked  his  head  
through  the  open  window  and  saw  two  other  passengers  sitting  in  the  back  seat,  

Tupelo,  Troubadour,  Memphis   2  
presenting  as  uncomfortable,  but  for  what  reasons  Sonny  could’ve  never  guessed  at  
first  glance.  
“Keep  that  up  here,  with  us.    We’ll  make  room.”  The  man  offered  kindly,  
pointing  to  Sonny’s  1951  Gibson  J-­‐45  acoustic  guitar  with  a  sunburst  finish  and  
maroon  pick  guard.    The  only  driver  thus  far  that  morning  to  have  pulled  over  to  
collect  Sonny  sat  their  smiling,  his  blonde  hair  and  blonde  handlebar  moustache  
hiding  his  age.  
Sonny  wriggled  his  body  and  six-­‐stringed  soul  into  the  front  passenger  seat,  
awkwardly  shifting  his  shoes  and  knees  to  make  room  for  his  personal  caravan  of  
one  plus  one.  
“My  name’s  Aaron,  but  everyone  just  calls  me  E.P.    Don’t  have  much  use  for  
my  proper  name.    Not  with  all  the  quakin’  and  shakin’  these  days.”  He  was  referring  
to  the  advent  of  televised  music  performances  that  began  streaming  through  
millions  of  American  homes  just  a  few  years  back.    Sonny  wasn’t  quite  sure  what  to  
think  of  E.P.  or  why  exactly  it  was  that  he  went  by  such  initials,  but  reminded  
himself  of  his  own  recently  experienced  pilgrimage  and  let  his  judgment  go.    Not  to  
mention,  they  were  already  hitting  speeds  of  60  miles  per  hour  by  the  time  he  made  
the  connection.  
“This  here’s  Allen  and  his  best  girl  Sue  Ellen.    I  picked  them  up  a  while  back  
as  well.    Seems  we  got  ourselves  a  convoy  now.”  E.P.  laughed  and  Sonny  turned  
around  to  nod  his  head  and  smile  at  his  fellow  hitchhikers.    He  found  it  strange  that  
E.P.  did  the  introductions  for  the  young  couple  in  back,  considering  it  couldn’t  have  
been  more  than  a  few  hours  since  they  too  were  strangers.    But,  then  again,  white  

Tupelo,  Troubadour,  Memphis   3  
folks  always  spoke  and  behaved  in  inconsistent  ways  around  Sonny,  so,  for  the  time  
being,  he  shrugged  it  off.  
“What’s  in  Memphis?”  E.P.  asked,  praying  his  hunch  was  right.  
“Sam  Phillips.”  Sonny  responded,  short  but  polite.    E.P.  looked  him  over  with  
a  salivating  grin  and  his  right  hand  started  to  tap  rapidly  on  the  gearshift.    Sonny  
tried  not  to  pay  attention  to  E.P.’s  notable  excitement  and  distracted  himself  with  
the  neck  of  his  guitar  and  fingered  a  few  chords.      
Meanwhile,  E.P.  swallowed  a  glass  shattering  “yee-­‐haw”  and  started  
bouncing  in  his  seat.    He  let  out  a  whispered,  “Jackpot”  and  turned  the  radio  up  loud  
and  hit  the  gas.    After  a  few  songs  of  chicken  pickin’  and  rockabilly  spokes,  E.P.  
turned  the  volume  down  and  began  to  speak  again.  
“You  think  Sam  Phillips  wants  anything  to  do  with  a  colored  boy  like  you?”  he  
asked  Sonny,  as  plain  as  day,  breaking  the  ice  that  need  not  be  broken.  
“Sam  didn’t  seem  to  have  any  problems  with  Baby  Boy  and  Ike.”  Sonny  
reminded  him  and  somewhat  killed  his  buzz.  
“Yeah.    I  reckon,  but  these  days,  it  seems  that  the  King  and  the  Killer  have  
helped  ol’  Mr.  Phillips  get  around  all  that.”  E.P.  tried  to  volley  back,  at  which  point  
Sonny  looked  over  at  the  man  behind  the  wheel  and  started  to  wonder  just  exactly  
what  vehicle  his  life  had  wandered  into.    Sonny  considered  calling  the  stranger  by  
his  real  name,  Aaron,  from  that  point  forward  as  he  pondered  whether  or  not  
referring  to  him  as  “E.P.”  was  actually  feeding  some  sort  of  obsession.    An  obsession  
that  went  well  beyond  Sonny’s  own  personal  admiration,  that  which  he  showed  in  
Tupelo.  

Tupelo,  Troubadour,  Memphis   4  
In  Tupelo,  just  a  day  removed  from  the  Tudor,  Sonny  had  hopped  out  of  his  
cousin  Walt’s  pick-­‐up  truck,  grabbed  his  guitar  and  walked  around  to  shake  hands  
and  say  good-­‐bye.  
“You  got  everything  you  need?”  Walt  asked.    Sonny  held  up  his  guitar  and  
nodded.    “What  about  your  suitcases?”  Walt  asked  and  Sonny  shook  his  head.  
“You  can  have’em.    They’re  empty  anyways.”  Sonny  replied,  already  looking  
around  the  small  town,  tuning  up  his  intuition.  
“Sorry  I  can’t  get  you  no  further.    I  need  to  head  back  before  everyone  starts  
wonderin’  where  I  am,  let  alone  yourself,  Sonny.”    Walt  said  with  a  small  bit  of  
urgency  and  discomfort,  knowing  all  along  that  he  shouldn’t  have  let  Sonny  talk  him  
into  the  ride  to  Tupelo.    “You’re  gonna  have  to  make  it  on  your  own  from  here.”  Walt  
told  Sonny,  to  which  Sonny  replied,  
  “I  won’t  be  the  first.”    
Once  on  his  own,  Sonny  toured  Main  Street  and  walked  through  a  few  
neighborhoods  with  no  address  or  landmarks  in  mind.    He  just  peeked  his  eyes  
around  and  waited  for  his  gut  to  bite  down  before  deciding  which  one  he’d  take  a  
mental  snapshot  of  and  hit  the  road  again.    He  was  merely  curious  what  made  the  
town  so  special  that  it  could  produce  the  first  and  only  undisputed  king  of  these  
democratic  states.    
Hours  later,  after  a  few  short  lived  rides  and  about  thirty  miles  outside  of  
town,  he  was  forced  to  tuck  himself  in  under  the  pitch  black  sky,  his  only  blanket  the  
twelve-­‐bar  blues  and  the  humming  cars  that  passed  above.  

Tupelo,  Troubadour,  Memphis   5  
Now,  his  quest  had  landed  him  in  the  passenger  seat  of  what  seemed  to  be  a  
fanatic,  the  self-­‐proclaimed  namesake  of  the  very  king  he  had  paid  reverence  to  just  
a  day  before.  
“So,  what  are  you  gonna  play  for  Sam?”  E.P.  looked  over  at  Sonny  and  
questioned  the  young  man  who  rode  along  silently,  barely  mouthing  the  words  of  
the  juke  joint  hoppin’  sounds  that  channeled  through  the  airwaves  and  blasted  
through  the  front  speaker  of  the  old  Ford.      
Sonny  blushed  and  gazed  further  out  the  window  and  simply  shrugged  his  
shoulders.      
“Don’t  know,  huh?    Well,  ol’  Sam  Phillips  ain’t  gonna  just  listen  to  a  little  
colored  boy  like  yourself  strummin’  chords  and  humming  along  to  nothin’  at  all.    You  
gotta  have  a  song,  ya  hear?    You  gotta  be  ready.    You  gotta  show  up  with  gold  in  your  
hands  and  the  voice  of  God  firin’  out  your  belly.    C’mon  now,  what  you  got?    Play  me  
something.”  E.P.  insisted.  
“I’m  just  a  little  shy,  that’s  all,  sir.”  Sonny  politely  declined  the  request  and  
reached  up  to  the  radio  to  turn  the  volume  back  up.    E.P.  immediately  turned  it  back  
down  and  lifted  his  eyes  to  the  rearview  mirror  and  smiled.  
“Sounds  like  Sonny  hear  needs  the  kind  of  encouragement  that  Allen  needed.    
Ain’t  that  right  Sue  Ellen?”    E.P.  looked  over  at  Sonny  one  more  time,  a  devilish  smile  
strapped  across  his  face  and  he  reached  over  and  trespassed  the  six  strings  of  
Sonny’s  guitar.    “Now,  I  ain’t  askin’,  boy.    Play  me  somethin’.”  
Sonny  turned  his  head  and  saw  that  E.P.’s  full  body  was  twisting  towards  
him,  his  eyes  now  and  then  glancing  at  the  road.    Sonny  turned  to  the  backseat  of  the  

Tupelo,  Troubadour,  Memphis   6  
car  and  saw  that  Allen,  still  silent,  sat  upright,  staring  forward,  like  he  was  strapped  
with  dynamite.    Sonny  looked  at  Sue  Ellen  and  she  smiled  and  lifted  her  left  hand  
and  allowed  a  small  pistol  to  dangle  from  her  index  finger  before  taking  control  of  it  
again  and  pointing  it  at  Sonny,  and  then  back  at  Allen.      Sonny  took  what  little  room  
the  front  passenger  seat  afforded  him  and  he  began  to  nervously  pick  and  poke  at  
the  fret  board  and  strings.    “Go  on  now,”  E.P.  commanded  and  eventually  Sonny  
began  to  gain  a  little  cadence  and  a  peek  of  his  real  talents  showed  through.  
“Ain’t  that  somethin’  Sue  Ellen?    We  finally  got  ourselves  some  rhythm  to  go  
with  our  poet  here.”  Sue  Ellen  laughed  at  E.P.’s  claim  and  then  gazed  over  at  Allen  
and  threw  a  look  of  shame  his  direction,  pointing  the  gun  closer  to  his  face.  
“This  little  t-­‐t-­‐tease  ain’t  done  sh-­‐shit  yet.”  Sue  Ellen  remarked,  her  first  
words  of  the  road  trip,  at  least  since  Sonny  joined  in,  coming  across  as  rough  and  
nasty.    Her  mind  and  her  voice  seemed  to  be  at  odds  with  each  other  as  she  
stuttered  through  her  syllables.  
“Now,  Sue  Ellen,  don’t  get  impatient.    We  was  just  missing  a  key  ingredient.    
But  we  done  found  it.    Thank  you  Jesus.    A  colored  boy  with  a  dream.    Our  prayers  
have  been  answered,  Lord.”  These  blasphemous  gestures  to  the  sky  proclaimed  
loudly  and  insincere  caused  Sonny  to  stop  playing  and  fidget  in  his  seat.    He  
considered  jumping  out  if  the  right  moment  ever  came.    “Okay  boys,  now  that  we  got  
a  poet  and  the  colorful  rhythm  of  the  hard  times  of  the  South,  let’s  get  started  with  a  
new  song.    Mr.  Phillips  is  waitin’.”    Sonny  looked  at  Allen  and  Allen  back  at  Sonny,  
their  assignment  seeming  somewhat  clear,  though  the  outcome  was  ostensibly  far  
from  possible.  

Tupelo,  Troubadour,  Memphis   7  
Sonny  had  never  written  a  song  with  anyone  except  his  father.    They’d  sit  
inside  their  own  personal  recording  studio  with  used  equipment  purchased  in  
Atlanta,  all  stacked  up  and  organized  in  the  basement,  and  they’d  have  at  it.    Sonny  
was  more  than  prepared  to  meet  the  inevitable  high  criticism  of  Sam  Phillips,  but  he  
had  never  imagined  writing  music  at  gunpoint  while  traveling  60  miles  an  hour  
towards  Memphis.      
“Allen  here’s  a  b-­‐bean-­‐dip.    Ain’t  that  r-­‐r-­‐r-­‐ight  pretty  boy?”  Sue  Ellen  
announced,  laughing,  though  unaware  of  her  own  mistake.  
“Its  beatnik,  honey.    Claims  to  be  a  poet  on  his  way  to  Denver.    We  picked  him  
up  last  night  just  east  of  Holly  Springs.”    Sonny  was  immediately  confused.    Holly  
Springs  was  still  up  the  road  a  ways,  maybe  fifty  to  a  hundred  miles  in  the  exact  
direction  they  were  heading.    He  couldn’t  figure  out  how  they’d  picked  up  Allen  
ahead  of  where  they  already  were.    “We  told  him  he  could  just  give  us  some  lyrics  
instead  of  cash  for  gas,  but  he  seems  to  have  what  they  call  writer’s  block.    Sue  Ellen  
here  has  been  tryin’  to  serve  as  his  personal  Muse,  but  apparently  Mr.  Ginsberg  
doesn’t  take  to  kindly  to  Sue’s,  shall  we  say,  motivational  tactics.”    E.P.  eloquently  
finished  the  word  ‘tactics’  while  Sonny  turned  around  to  see  if  Allen  really  was  the  
famed  poet,  whose  face  he  knew  from  pictures  and  book  covers.      
While  Allen  sat  there,  frozen,  Sonny  shook  off  the  possible  stargazing  and  
turned  his  attention  back  to  E.P.  as  he  started  spouting  again.      
“Yeah,  we  had  a  couple  other  boys  join  us  over  the  miles,  but  I  thought  we  
had  something  when  Allen  told  us  he  was  a  man  of  the  written  word.    He’s  been  
nothin’  but  finesse  and  useless  dribble.    But,  when  I  saw  you  this  morning,  well,  I  

Tupelo,  Troubadour,  Memphis   8  
sure  as  shit  just  had  to  turn  around  and  grab  you.    Remember  Sue,  I  said,  if  this  boy  
has  a  real  colored  soul  inside  of  him,  we  may  just  have  somethin’  with  the  two  of’em  
put  together.”  
“That’s  right,  he  did.    He  said,  ‘What  we  needs  here  is  a  c-­‐colored  boy.’”  Sue  
Ellen  confirmed  proudly.  
Neither  Sonny  nor  Allen  cared  to  participate  in  the  conversation,  but  neither  
the  driver  nor  his  accomplice  seemed  to  care  whether  or  not  they  did.    All  they  
seemed  to  care  about  was  matching  Allen’s  words  with  Sonny’s  assumed  rhythm.    
Sonny  began  strumming  again,  lifting  the  pitch  of  his  hum  a  bit  as  Allen  started  
scribbling.    A  few  miles  went  by  and  they  hadn’t  gotten  any  closer  to  perfecting  the  
musical  gold  that  was  demanded  of  them.    They’d  start  and  stop.    They’d  start  again.    
They  could  never  seem  to  get  into  each  other’s  minds  like  good  songwriters  know  
how  to  do.    In  their  defense  though,  Sonny  couldn’t  even  face  Allen  due  the  awkward  
positioning  of  the  Tudor’s  biggest  interior  design  flaw:  not  giving  enough  room  for  
guitars  and  acoustics.    After  thirty  minutes  or  so,  E.P.  began  to  get  anxious  and  angry  
with  their  lack  of  productivity.  
“C’mon  now.    We’re  less  than  an  hour  away  and  y’all  ain’t  got  nothin’.    Enough  
with  that  Greenwich  Village…Bohemian…Blues  shit.    Get  to  honky  tonkin’  and  
rock’n’rollin’  already.”    
At  the  conclusion  of  these  words,  Sonny  glared  straight  down  the  throat  of  
E.P.’s  soul  and  didn’t  let  go  until  cower  took  hold  of  E.P.’s  shoulders  and  he  shifted  
his  attention  back  to  the  front  of  the  vehicle.    Sonny  paused  and  changed  the  tuning  
of  his  guitar  and  even  pulled  out  his  harmonica  and  blew  a  few  chords.    Even  when  

Tupelo,  Troubadour,  Memphis   9  
Allen  started  to  mumble  an  idea,  Sonny  struck  the  air  above  his  head  and  
commanded  any  and  all  interruptions  to  halt.    All  three  of  Sonny’s  proximate  
audience  members  apprehensively  sat  still  while  they  awaited  the  broken  silence  to  
emerge.  
Sonny  began  to  hit  a  new  tempo  and  mumbled  a  few  words  before  stopping.    
He  retuned  and  began  again.    He  got  a  littler  further  and  choked  on  a  few  notes.    
Allen  reached  his  hand  forward  and  placed  it  on  Sonny’s  right  shoulder  and  the  two  
of  them  allowed  for  the  calm  to  drop  in  like  skydiving  reinforcements.    Sonny  
started  up  again  and  maintained  a  chord  progression  that  hit  all  inner  corners  of  the  
crowded  Ford  concert  hall.    Allen  threw  a  few  words  at  him  and  Sonny  picked  them  
up  and  turned  them  into  song.    They  went  around  and  around,  back  and  forth,  
changing  keys,  crossing  bridges  and  landing  back  home  again.      
You  can  take  me  back  to  Memphis,  
But  the  Sun’s  already  gone.  
  
Sonny  threw  in  some  seven  notes  and  slipped  in  the  rockabilly  jerk  that  E.P.  
was  dying  to  hear.      
So  now  don’t  you  go  a  tattlin’,    
While  this  pick  up  truck  goes  by…Highway  Rattlin’.  
  
Just  about  ten  miles  outside  of  Memphis,  maybe  twenty  minutes  from  Union  
Avenue,  all  four  riders  had  memorized  the  song.    They  clapped  their  hands  and  
harmonized  and  rolled  down  the  windows  to  let  the  wind  in  on  their  secret.    Sonny  
felt  good,  forgetting  all  about  the  gun,  the  apparent  kidnapping  and  the  pressure  to  

Tupelo,  Troubadour,  Memphis   10  
sing.    He  felt  like  whatever  nerves  he’d  have  had  entering  into  Sun  Studios  just  a  few  
hours  ago  had  vanished  and  he  was  ready  to  knock’em  dead.  
E.P.  pulled  off  the  highway  into  the  deserted  corner  of  a  farm  field  and  
reached  for  Sonny’s  guitar.  
“Now,  teach  it  to  me.”  He  stared  and  pulled  at  the  neck  of  the  guitar.  
“You  know  how  it  goes.    What  are  you  doing?”  Sonny  asked,  pulling  back.  
“C’mon  now  boy,  we  made  it  this  far.    Now,  teach  it  to  me.”  He  emphasized  
the  order  and  motioned  with  his  head  to  have  Sue  Ellen  point  the  pistol  in  Sonny’s  
direction.    Sonny  allowed  the  guitar  to  slide  through  is  fingers,  plucking  a  few  
strings,  tempted  to  pull  them  so  hard  they’d  break,  but  reluctantly  allowed  E.P.  to  
hold  it  and  begin  strumming.    “Now  what  was  that?    E,  E7,  A?    Muffle  the  low  E  and  
hammer  on  the  B  string?  How’d  you  strum  it?    Show  me.”  
Sonny  mimicked  the  shake  of  his  hand  on  his  belly  and  one  by  one  stated  the  
chords  that  E.P.  needed  to  know  before  he  too  could  play  the  little  tune  they’d  just  
written.    After  a  few  minutes,  E.P.  got  out  of  the  car,  walked  around  back  and  placed  
the  guitar  in  the  trunk.    He  returned  to  the  driver’s  seat,  started  the  engine  and  
slammed  his  door  shut.    
“Thank  you  boys.”  Was  all  he  said  as  he  turned  back  onto  the  highway  and  
resumed  the  journey  towards  Memphis.  
  
Once  they  arrived  at  706  Union,  E.P.  parked  the  car  across  the  street,  took  a  
deep  breath  and  looked  back  at  Sue  Ellen  and  the  boys,  

Tupelo,  Troubadour,  Memphis   11  
“Now,  you  all  wait  here.”    He  used  his  hand  to  comb  his  hair  in  the  rearview  
mirror,  placed  sunglasses  upon  his  face  and  put  an  unlit  cigarette  above  his  right  
ear.    His  dirty  and  worn  white  shirt  stuck  to  his  body,  its  short  sleeves  rolled  halfway  
up  his  arms.    He  got  out,  slammed  the  door,  ran  around  back  to  the  trunk  and  
contemplated  which  guitar  to  grab.    Sonny’s  Gibson,  or  his  own  hand  me  down  from  
years  past.    He  decided  that  Sonny’s  was  to  be  his  Holy  Grail.    He  slammed  down  the  
trunk  and  leapfrogged  through  traffic  to  the  front  door.  
Sonny  sat  there,  curious  why  they  were  still  being  forced  at  gunpoint  to  
remain  in  the  car.  
“Now  what?”  he  asked.  
“Now,  we  hope  Mr.  Phillips  likes  it  and  plays  it  on  the  radio.    If  so,  we  get  to  
go,  right  Ms.  Parker?”  Allen  responded,  looking  towards  Sue  Ellen.    Without  the  
distraction  of  speeding  cars  and  writing  songs,  Sonny  could  see  that  Sue  Ellen  
couldn’t  have  been  more  than  eighteen  years  old,  the  very  age  Sonny  was  at  the  
moment.      
“I  reckon.    We’ll  see  what  Mr.  Parker  says.”  She  responded,  nonchalantly  
pointing  the  gun  at  the  two  passengers  while  fixated  on  the  windows  across  the  
street.    Sonny  looked  out  and  saw  his  Mecca.    He  noticed  right  away  its  lack  of  
glamour  and  how  it  just  sat  on  the  corner  like  it  was  an  old  barbershop.      
“How  do  you  know  what  happens  next,  Allen?”  Sonny  asked.  
“Because  this  ain’t  the  first  time  I’ve  sat  here  with  these  fucking  lunatics,  
staring  at  those  damned  windows.    You  heard  him.    They  picked  me  up  yesterday.    
This  is  the  fourth  time  in  two  days  we’ve  sat  here.    In  all  honestly,  the  only  difference  

Tupelo,  Troubadour,  Memphis   12  
this  time  around  is  you.”  Allen,  for  the  first  time  in  Sonny’s  presence,  was  speaking  
with  an  arrogant  tone.    Maybe  he  didn’t  fear  Sue  Ellen  or  her  gun,  maybe  he  was  just  
tired.    Either  way,  with  E.P.  out  of  the  car,  Allen  seemed  to  be  bothered  more  than  he  
was  worried.    Sonny  started  to  realize  what  was  going  on.  
Obsession  can  pierce  its  teeth  so  deep  that  your  consciousness  shatters  and  
the  line  between  reality  and  reverie  disappears.  
Sonny  watched  E.P.  walk  right  in  and  turned  around  to  ask,  
“Why  would  Mr.  Phillips  let  him  keep  coming  back  like  this?    Doesn’t  he  have  
better  things  to  do?”  
“They  cut  a  d-­‐deal.”  Sue  Ellen  filled  in  the  blanks.  “E.P.  gives  him  $75  each  t-­‐
time  he  cuts  a  t-­‐track.    If  Sam  likes  it,  he  gets  the  DJ  across  the  str-­‐str,  road  to  play  it  
on  the  r-­‐radio.    If  he  doesn’t,  he  k-­‐keeps  the  seventy-­‐five.    It’s  win-­‐win  for  Sam.”    
“Where  do  you  get  the  $75  each  time?”  Sonny  asked  a  question  that  he  
already  had  a  hunch  to  its  answer  long  before  the  words  escaped  his  lips.  
“R-­‐Rhythm  &  Blues  ain’t  all  we  hijackin’  on  78.”  Sue  Ellen  said  with  a  smile.  
  
Sonny  stared  back  to  the  front  door  of  Sun  Records  and  his  blood  began  to  
rise.    It’d  been  his  dream  to  make  it  this  far,  though  he  hadn’t  anticipated  being  held  
hostage  just  ninety-­‐nine  feet  away  from  entering.    Sonny  thought  back  to  all  the  
memories  of  his  father  and  him  playing  music  together  since  he  was  a  little  kid.    
Sonny  was  nervous  though  that  Highway  Rattlin’  would  expose  his  true  identity  
through  it’s  lack  of  soul  and  suffering.    Sonny  wasn’t  a  poor  colored  boy  from  the  
other  side  of  the  tracks  as  E.P.  assumed  and  fancied  him  to  be.    Both  his  mother  and  

Tupelo,  Troubadour,  Memphis   13  
father  were  learned  individuals,  pioneers  and  leaders  in  the  small  southern  Georgia  
town  he’d  grown  up  in.    Sonny  grew  up  memorizing  the  script  of  his  parents’  college  
degrees  that  hung  on  the  wall  and  was  assured  that  one  day,  he  too,  would  have  the  
same  certificates  framed  and  mounted.    Relative  to  society’s  expectations  and  the  
assumed  history  of  all  Black  folk,  the  Jones  family  actually  had  plenty  of  money  and  
opportunity  for  advancement  and  schooling.    But  Sonny  wanted  to  impress  his  
father  in  a  different  manner.      
Jefferson,  Sr.  was  a  high  school  music  teacher,  as  well  as,  the  conductor  of  
both  the  community  and  church  choirs.    Father  and  son  loved  playing,  singing  and  
listening  to  the  blues.    Their  most  heated  conversations  came  when  debating  the  
histories  and  influences  of  blues,  jazz  and  eventually  rock’n’roll  musicians.      As  
Sonny  grew  closer  to  high  school  graduation,  it  was  assumed  by  all  that  he  would  
accept  a  scholarship  to  and  attend  Miles  College  just  outside  of  Birmingham.    On  the  
morning  he  left,  his  family  gathered  around,  shared  in  hugs  and  kisses  and  watched  
as  he  loaded  two  suitcases  into  his  cousin  Walt’s  truck.    After  waving  good-­‐bye  and  
watching  the  truck  roll  down  the  road  for  a  few  minutes,  the  family  went  inside,  
shared  in  prayer  and  an  early  lunch  and,  eventually,  everyone  went  about  their  day.    
Just  about  an  hour  later,  Sonny’s  mother  was  picking  up  around  the  house  and,  
when  walking  into  Sonny’s  bedroom,  noticed  something  odd.  
“Jefferson,  come  in  here.”  She  hollered.  
“What  is  it?”  Jefferson,  Sr.  asked,  walking  towards  her,  standing  in  the  
doorway  of  their  recently  departed  son’s  bedroom.    Nothing  had  changed.    His  
clothes  were  still  hanging  in  the  closet  and  his  possessions  were  all  still  in  place,  as  

Tupelo,  Troubadour,  Memphis   14  
they  were  the  night  before.    The  only  things  they  could  see  that  were  missing  were  
his  Gibson  and  two  suitcases.    While  Sonny’s  mother  shook  her  head,  Jefferson  Sr.  
simply  nodded,  gave  his  wife  a  big  hug  from  behind  and  said,  
“Good  for  him.”  
  
Sonny  wasn’t  sure  if  he’d  ever  had  what  E.P.  thought  he  had  stolen  from  him,  
but  he  was  eager  to  find  out.    On  the  surface  of  his  conscience  was  the  reality  that  his  
labor,  his  calling,  and  his  father’s  passed  on  talents  had  been  robbed  from  him  the  
moment  the  ’45  Tudor  slowed  down  to  pick  him  up.    However,  deeper  down,  below  
the  white  waves  of  his  steaming  conscience  was  a  recognition  that,  right  now,  
behind  those  windows,  was  his  first  audition.    The  irony  of  it  all  was  that,  Sonny  
knew  very  well  what  E.P.  was  talking  about  when  he  spoke  of  his  color  and  the  new  
trend  of  quakin’  and  shakin’  on  national  TV.    Since  Elvis  and  the  rest  of  the  Million  
Dollar  Quartet  had  taken  shape,  B.B.  and  Ike  were  somewhat  left  to  fend  for  
themselves,  back-­‐ups  to  all  the  rage.    Sonny  knew  what  true  musical  talent  was.    He  
knew  all  about  crescendos  and  measures  and  real  rhythm  and  songwriting.    He  
knew  that  Elvis  never  bothered  to  write  any  of  his  own  stuff  but,  sure  enough,  there  
he  was,  making  the  girls  scream  and  lose  their  minds.    Where  the  irony  played  was  
that  Sonny  just  wanted  a  way  to  find  out  what  Mr.  Phillips  thought  of  his  music,  
regardless  of  his  color.    So,  in  a  way,  E.P.,  or  Aaron,  or  whoever  this  psycho  was,  had  
actually  done  him  a  favor.    As  much  as  Sonny  wanted  to  smell  the  inside  of  that  
studio  and  count  the  dots  on  its  famed  ceiling  tiles,  he  was  more  interested  on  what  
the  most  important  man  in  music  had  to  say  about  his  song.    He  contemplated  

Tupelo,  Troubadour,  Memphis   15  
heading  all  the  way  up  to  Chicago  and  giving  Chess  a  shot,  after  all,  it  worked  for  
Chuck,  but  something  grabbed  him  in  this  moment,  like  it  was  the  twisting  of  fate  
that  landed  this  opportunity  to  audition,  behind  the  scenes.  
E.P.  came  out  of  the  studio  with  a  great  big  smile  across  his  dumb  lookin’,  
toothless  face.    He  pulled  the  cigarette  off  of  his  ear  and  threw  it  down  on  the  
sidewalk,  unlit  and  unsmoked.    He  ran  across  the  street  and  back  to  the  car.    
Everyone  reshuffled  their  weight  and  sat  upright  for  his  return.    He  ducked  into  the  
car,  handed  Sonny’s  guitar  back  to  him,  started  the  engine,  checked  his  mirrors  and  
took  off  without  saying  a  word.    A  few  minutes  went  by  and  E.P.  turned  on  the  radio,  
adjusting  the  dial  to  the  specific  station  he  had  memorized  by  touch.    Sonny,  
confused  by  the  silence,  looked  around  and  both  Allen  and  Sue  Ellen  hushed  him  
with  their  fingers  in  front  of  their  lips.    They  drove  around  the  streets  of  Memphis,  
sitting  at  stoplights  longer  than  needed,  waving  pedestrians  to  cross,  taking  their  
time.    Finally,  after  a  few  songs  played  through,  E.P.  spoke,  
“I  could  feel  this  one.    They  were  nothing  but  smiles  in  there.    I  tell  you,  we’re  
gonna  be  rich.    I  just  turned  $75  into  endless  gold.    It’s  like  alchemy.    Like  
Goddamned  alchemy.”    His  devil  finally  poured  out  and  the  duel  violations  of  the  
Good  Lord’s  wishes  were  acknowledged  and  understood  immediately  by  Sonny.    His  
stomach  twisted  in  discomfort  and  his  heart  pounded  in  anticipation.  
The  songs  continued,  the  sun  rolled  through  the  sky,  the  songs  continued.  
Elvis,  Jerry  Lee,  Johnny,  Carl,  Elvis,  Roy,  Johnny….  
The  excitement  in  the  Tudor  dropped  to  the  depths  of  no  return.    Or  so  it  felt.    
E.P.  hit  the  gas  and  soon  enough  they  were  back  on  the  78,  heading  towards  Tupelo.      

Tupelo,  Troubadour,  Memphis   16  
“W-­‐What  now,  Aaron?”  Sue  Ellen  asked.  
“It’s  E.P.,  Sue,  call  me  E.P.”  Was  all  he  said.    Sonny  and  Allen  exchanged  
glances  in  their  shared  space  of  obliviousness.    Eventually,  back  across  the  state  line,  
they  pulled  into  a  gas  station  and  E.P.  told  them  to  sit  still  while  he  “conducted  
business”.      
The  gas  jockey  sauntered  up  to  the  driver  window  with  a  little  hop  in  his  
step,  tapping  his  hands  to  his  thighs.    When  E.P.  rolled  down  the  window,  Sonny  
could  hear  the  filling  station’s  radio  playing  the  same  songs  that  came  through  on  
the  car  stereo.    The  attendant,  whose  nametag  read  Tony,  had  thick  sideburns  and  
he  kept  his  shirt  buttoned  halfway,  exposing  his  chest  under  the  hot  Mississippi  sun.    
He  didn’t  walk,  he  shook.  
“Dollar  gas,  please.”  E.P.  said,  casually.    Sonny  could  see  Sue  Ellen  passing  the  
pistol  to  the  front  seat  while  E.P.  reached  his  hand  behind  him,  wiggling  his  fingers  
for  its  touch.      
“Yes  sir.”  The  young  buck  responded  and  waltzed  across  the  black  top  as  Carl  
Perkins  sang  Matchbox  through  the  speakers  of  the  gray  box  plugged  in  through  an  
extension  chord  that  ran  all  the  way  inside.  
E.P.  continued  to  wiggle  his  fingers  and  eventually  turned  around  to  see  what  
was  taking  Sue  Ellen  so  long  to  hand  him  the  gun.    When  he  did,  he  saw  that  Sonny  
had  excused  himself  from  the  car  and  Sue  Ellen  was  staring  out  her  window,  
unaware  of  what  had  just  transpired,  watching  the  young  man  dance  around  the  car,  
checking  the  oil  and  shaking  his  rag.  
“Where’s  the  gun  Sue  Ellen?”  E.P.  asked  through  his  teeth.  

Tupelo,  Troubadour,  Memphis   17  
“I  handed  it  to  you.    You  ain’t  g-­‐got  it?”  
“No  ma’am  I  do  not.    And  where  is  Sonny?”  
E.P.,  Sue  Ellen  and  Allen  all  looked  out  their  windows  and,  as  if  their  necks  
were  synchronized,  all  turned  towards  the  driver’s  side  as  Sonny  and  the  dancing  
fool  walked  forward.    The  young  man  had  his  hands  up,  above  his  head  and  looked  
terrified.  
“E.P.,  Sue  Ellen,  get  out  of  the  car.”  Sonny  said,  looking  around,  protecting  his  
appearance.  
They  did  as  they  were  told,  assuming  they  were  making  room  for  the  newest  
member  of  their  traveling  band  before  they’d  hop  back  in  the  car  themselves.    
However,  once  Tony  was  inside  the  car,  Sonny  slid  right  behind  him  on  the  front  
bench  and  bounced  into  the  driver’s  seat.    He  shut  the  door  without  saying  a  word  
and  peeled  out.    E.P.  and  Sue  Ellen  stood  their,  not  even  bothering  to  wave  the  
exhaust  smoke  out  of  their  faces,  dumbfounded  by  the  last  four  seconds  of  their  
lives.  
“Hot  Damn,  Sonny.    Nice  work.”  Allen  said  from  the  backseat  as  the  
speedometer  rapidly  approached  eighty  miles  per  hour.    “Get  me  as  far  the  hell  away  
from  Memphis  as  you  can.    Tony,  where  can  we  drop  you  off?”    
Sonny  didn’t  say  a  word  and  just  kept  driving.    His  nerves  were  ricocheting  
throughout  his  body,  penetrating  his  skin  from  the  inside.    After  a  few  miles  of  loud  
engine  revolutions  and  speed,  he  eventually  slowed  down  and  could  hear  Tony  
crying  and  Allen  shouting.  

Tupelo,  Troubadour,  Memphis   18  
“Sonny,  what  the  hell  are  you  doing?    What’s  going  on?    Take  this  kid  back  
and  let  me  out  of  this  car.”  
“But  we  ain’t  finished  yet.”  Sonny  replied.    “They  didn’t  play  our  song.”  
Allen  was  terrified  by  the  tone  of  Sonny’s  voice  and  his  words  downright  
killed  him.      
“Sonny?”  Allen  asked  nervously.  
“The  song  never  got  played.”    Sonny  smiled.    “But  we  traded  those  two  bags  
of  deadweight  for  this  here  dancing  sensation.    Now  we  got  it.    Poetry,  Rhythm  and  
Shake.    Can  you  play  the  guitar?”  Sonny  turned  towards  Tony,  he  and  his  sideburns  
involuntarily  shaking  in  the  passenger  seat.  
At  the  next  exit,  with  obsession  behind  the  wheel,  the  car  around  and  headed  
back  to  Memphis.  
  
    
  
  
  


