The road hadn’t been paved anytime in this century. Delia’s 1990 Jetta could barely make
it over the buckled pavement as she dipped and popped, her head grazing the ripped fabric of the
ceiling. Route 89 was supposed to be a major thoroughfare in Utah, but this stretch of highway
was a small part of a trip, not any kind of destination. The ruts and bumps could be briefly
tolerated, then forgotten. This part of the road didn’t have to enter into your memory at all.
Delia had always wanted to go to Thistle. She had heard stories about the town growing
up in Salt Lake—scary stories and sad stories, bedtime stories and stories only felt through
whispers in the dark—and those stories stayed with her. Delia tucked them into her chest,
somewhere between her lungs, and the stories nestled there like turtle doves bedding down. They
cooed with the rising sun, before she was fully awake, before she had a chance to open her eyes
and see the white of her walls. They murmured their small, birdy murmurs in the place right
before light.
They woke her.
When he hit her, the stories were what created the space in her head for the thought to
form, a bubble, and pop, release the thought: Get out, go, go, now. It wasn’t the kind of hit you
see in a movie, no broken cheekbones, no bloody nose, and it was the first time, but still. Still.
Everything was still, silent, waiting, this far out. She had even turned off the radio, the
tinny wail of pop songs sounding too desperate against the silence. Even above the clunking of
the engine, Delia felt that she could hear her bones creaking, her stomach complain, the echoing,
aching rush of her eardrums.
The rest stop, claiming panoramic views, was empty. Just like the road before it, it was in
poor repair, signs hanging half off their metal posts, the guardrail bent and rusted. Evidence of

Thistle, Utah

2

the slump, what they called the massive landslide that damned up the Spanish Fork River, was a
scar etched into the face of the valley. She touched her own face. The left cheek still throbbed,
gently, like it had its own, individual pulse.
As she looked out, she could hear her mother’s voice in her ear: April 17, 1983 was no
ordinary day. It was the day of two very significant events: the birth of Delia Constance Brown
and the death of the town of Thistle. Delia shuddered as the wind turned itself over, crashed into
her body. The tunnel the mountains made held the cold of late April bright and clean against the
sun.
They had learned about this area in school, when Delia took geology at BYU, her one
concession to the natural sciences. The Wasatch Plateau was a hellmouth of disaster, due for a
massive earthquake any moment now. That was how Professor Egan had always said it, Any
moment now…always pausing before she began her new sentence, like a cue. Delia took a deep
breath every time that pause lit up the basement classroom, studying the shape of the area, a
smaller Utah inside the larger outline on the map.
Her mother used to tell her that it was the nature of maps to always force you to choose.
And any choice meant discarding something else. Any way is a loss. Any direction. Any choice.
Delia grasped her own hands together against the softness of her stomach, but it was no use. The
body knew better—she was alone, nearing thirty and holding her own hand for comfort in the
middle of nowhere.
That dimly lit room, fluorescents half-on to better view the projector Professor Egan
preferred to the virtual blackboard behind it, was the same place Delia had seen Thistle for the
first time. In the initial slides, it was a movie set. A town that looked ready for a gunslinger and a
sheriff to have a shoot-out down near the saloon while the player piano whined on in the

Thistle, Utah

3

background. It was idyllic in the way that only a picture can be. And then, without preamble, the
slides shifted and the movie Delia was watching had changed. Destruction everywhere, on a
scale she had never seen in person. Most of the town simply wiped out. Water clogged buildings
choked with shoes and papers and everything else the few remaining inhabitants had left behind.
The aftermath, a scarred swath of landslide that marred the earth, cut through Thistle’s main
street. Professor Egan’s voice rose above the images, as if the small, elderly professor were
floating on the ceiling looking down:
It’s about prevention. The surveyors had noticed the problem and failed to fix it because
Thistle was no longer a strong revenue source for the railroads. The town had dwindled, so no
one—not the state, the federal government, or the companies invested—thought it to be worth the
time or money to fix the problem. The joke was on them in the end. Thistle was the most costly
landslide in U.S. history. Factoring in inflation, when all was said and done, the oversight in
geological planning cost $922 million dollars.
But Thistle wasn’t a grand disaster. It was no Pompeii. It was a ghost town, but there
were no ghosts in it, no echo of tragedy. There has been no one caught in the slump. People had
lived here and people had died here, and while Delia was certain that awful things had happened
here, those awful things were no different from any other place. By the time she was born, by the
time everything died here, only a few families were left. The town had never been more than 600
people at its height, and was a shadow of its former self when the slump ripped through. Her
mother’s family had been long gone by then. Nothing linked her to the town in 1983 but some
coincidental timing.
Delia knew all that, but still. Still she made her way down the slope.

Thistle, Utah

4

Purple thistle cascaded down the incline, catching at the hem of her jeans. It was too early
for the flowers, as they usually bloomed well into May. The resulting blooms were ragged and
small, their usually sharp edges dull and unable to sting her through fabric. They were still sharp
enough to catch Delia’s skin when she slipped and fell, skidding down the last half of the hill.
Her engagement ring, which she still wore daily after eight years of marriage, turned on her
recently thinned finger and cut into her palm. A small bead of blood rose where the setting had
gone as far as to cut into her skin. Delia sat in the dirt for a moment, looking at the blood. It
shone.
Delia wasn’t Mormon, though her ancestors had been, but she was a BYU legacy and got
in early admission. Walking across BYU’s campus, all the Mormon couples were holding hands
with one sparkling ring between them. Everyone she knew was engaged, if not by the end of
freshman year, then soon after. There was wedding after wedding, shower after shower, modest
bachelorette after modest bachelorette to attend. Delia had eight bridesmaids’ dresses in her
closet, gathering dust, by the time she reached senior year. Each had their shoulders carefully
covered. It bothered her.
Not that she wanted to get married. Not that she wanted a diamond. She wanted a man.
Delia had always dreamed of a man with thick wrists and a slight frame, tall and willowy, but
strong. A sylph of strength. Smart. Didn’t have to be kind, she didn’t want him to be good. Smart
was enough. The BYU boys had a sweetness that made her feel corrupt and broken. She wanted
someone who was harsher than her.
Cue Aaron.
Delia stood up, shaking the blood from her palm and bringing it to her mouth. The taste
of salt and iron on her tongue felt right, correct. As if her body wasn’t whole anymore, as if it

Thistle, Utah

5

should, somehow, be falling to pieces. She tried to stand up and felt a tenderness in her ankle, as
if it wouldn’t be able to support her full weight. Delia winced once and walked on.
She couldn’t see Thistle from the bottom of the hill, but the scar was an undeniable
pathway. The ground had been disfigured and it was somehow beautiful, the way it churned up
and exposed what was underneath. The mica glinted in the weak sunlight that filtered through the
clouds, her feet crushing it into finer powder. There was no specific color to the dirt, but instead
a spectrum that whipped itself around her in the wind, dusting her boots and layering her mouth
with grit. No roads lead to Thistle, and the train tracks were washed out in the slump. Delia had
never seen a place so secluded, growing up in the city, going to school in the city, marrying and
staying in the city. Only a geological blemish on the face of the earth was there to mark out that
anything was there at all. Or had been.
Delia and her mother had always meant to go to Thistle together. Where her mother’s
grandmother had worked at the train station during WWI. Where Delia’s grandmother had been
born. Where a long-ago piece of the puzzle that was Delia’s life had been formed, the precursor,
the preface, the prologue. The town of the strange coincidence, as she had thought of it as a
child, making it into a Nancy Drew mystery.
It’s not as if Delia had thought of Thistle every day for almost thirty years. No, it was
nothing like that kind of burning obsession, that ripping and tearing kind of fascination. It was
that it kept cropping up. The day she was born. Her mother’s stories. Professor Egan’s class.
Aaron’s historical research as a BYU associate professor. Thistle followed her. Thistle was the
one obsessed.
Now Delia was here, alone, palms up and open and empty, limping and bleeding a little,
but here nonetheless. Or almost here, her ankle whimpering and slowing her progress. She

Thistle, Utah

6

wished she had thought to bring a jacket when she ran out of the house this morning, but she had
been running, literally running. And she felt lucky she had thought to grab anything besides what
she was wearing at all. Though the jeans were too tight and she had boots, but no socks, she was
warm enough, even as the sun was hidden behind a cloudbank.
Just as everything happens, suddenly, the town swam into view. It swam in wavy lines,
like a heatstroke, like a mirage, as if it was being created in front of her. Delia couldn’t breathe
for a moment, a moment so much like the pause Professor Egan used to make between now…and
the words that followed after. A moment where something is expected, but nothing ever actually
happens. This day was no different, but so completely different. Because as the wind died down,
the town of Thistle straightened out and there it was, it was right there in front of Delia. The
stories in her chest fluttered their wings as if breathing again as Delia finally exhaled. A fairytale,
a picture, a dream in reality.
It wasn’t much of a dream though, and not really fairytale-like at all. As for a picture,
Professor Egan’s slideshow was based on much older snapshots, taken not too long after the
slump and flood rammed through. Delia could tell, even from a distance, that the town had
become even more ghostly and decrepit. It was the palimpsest of a place where people once
existed, but only that shadow. Nothing living remained.
She came upon the train station first, the sign above the still-standing brick arch missing
the “I” and “LE.” Welcome to THST. As if the name of the place was so deeply tied to the idea of
the place that the sign couldn’t hold out. Delia turned her palm over and studied the still bleeding
mark on her palm. Was that the same? Was the ring rebelling because she had run? Was Aaron’s
digging into his skin too, after what he had done to her? They weren’t really Mr. and Mrs.
Cartwright anymore, if they had ever been.

Thistle, Utah

7

It had been illicit in the beginning, the senior coed and the young, dashing associate
professor. And illicit always has an undercurrent of fun and danger and something special. It was
the stuff of a romance novel, the cheesiest kind, the kind English major Delia and Historian
Aaron would never stoop so low as to even look at. They ignored those kinds of novels as they
perused the musty shelves of Salt Lake’s used bookstores, pretending they didn’t know each
other, but brushing hands in the aisles to send up small puffs of dust. They took weekends out of
town where they pretended to be married in small bed and breakfasts in the mountains. They had
sex on the desk in Aaron’s cramped closet of an office with the door locked and his hand over
her mouth to muffle any sounds he prompted from her. He was tall and lean and his wrists were
about average. He was smart and he wasn’t sweet, or at least he was old enough to Delia’s eyes
that it seemed like he wasn’t. He was enough. He was different enough.
Delia graduated, he proposed, she said yes. That’s what you did. When someone
proposes and you love them or you’ve been sleeping with them for long enough, you say yes.
Right? Because Delia’s mother wasn’t around anymore to insist on a big wedding, the couple
went to City Hall and dealt with it quickly and efficiently. And so it goes. And so it went, eight
years. Aaron worked at BYU, Delia in one of the bookstores they used to frequent, writing late
into the night. For eight years she felt the dust creeping inside her, and she tried to breathe it out
into the darkness, shake it out through a pen, a computer screen, a typewriter. But the stories
stayed sleeping, the stories never came. Delia felt like a zombie, writing working fucking
cooking cleaning, it was constant, all that living never stopped. But it stopped inside of Delia,
even while her body still moved.
She ran her hands up and down the brick arch, propped up on wooden stilts. She
wondered what would happen if she pulled on the braces, if she would be buried or if the

Thistle, Utah

8

structure would hold. She just wasn’t sure it was corporeal enough to touch her. It was real. It
was there, it wasn’t a mirage. But Thistle wasn’t really a town at all anymore or really a place. It
was a place where something once was, a collection of ruins. On their honeymoon, Aaron and
Delia had gone to Pompeii. That was still a place, somehow; there were still people in it. The
mummified and the tourists, making Frankenstein’s monster out of the remains. It lives! But
there were no monuments here, no placards. Even the rest stop has failed to announce Thistle’s
location, or previous location, or ruins. The world pretended there was nothing to see here.
Pompeii had been hot. They were there because Aaron wanted to be there, because of the
history of it, as he would say. When they had sex in the hotel after sweating through their clothes
all day, Aaron was rough with her. As if in this place, so far from their normal, the façade he had
carefully constructed fell away. Even though his wrists were simply average, they were attached
to hands strong enough to leave bruises on her wrists. His voice rasped in her ear, berating her,
cursing her, telling her exactly what he thought she was. His hipbones slammed against her again
and again, leaving bruises on the inside of her thighs. She felt nothing. She floated up to the
ceiling and looked down on the tiny, bird-like creature Aaron crushed underneath him. The
stories glowed inside her chest, she could see them lighting up her bones. Delia smiled. Delia
knew what he wanted, he wanted to break her. Delia let him.
After, he held her and told her he loved her. She said it back, but she couldn’t hear her
own voice in the closet-like hotel room. It was sucked up by the heat, the way their bodies stuck
together. It was sucked up by how little there was to say anymore.
It was getting late. The sun was creeping down and the wind was picking up. The town
smelled like fetid water, like weeds decaying slowly, stewing. Delia limped her way away from
the arch, entering the town proper. Improper, now, nowhere for anyone to live. Fireweed had

Thistle, Utah

9

overrun Main Street, mixed in with the flowering thistles. Here, they grew up to her hip and their
thorny blooms were razors. They found the holes the weave of Delia’s sweater and sunk into her
flesh. There was more flesh than she was used to, her stomach swelling slightly against her
pants. She put her hands on it, lightly, as if testing its ability to respond.
A few storefronts still stood, stark against the valley behind them. Empty windows
staring eyes, they watched Delia back. But there was nothing behind them. She wondered what
she had expected to find here. Her mother? Her mother had been gone ten years. Delia had
watched her die for nine months during her junior year of college, and then she was suddenly
gone. Lung cancer. It was an easy thing to say, a harder thing to explain.
When Aaron hit her, because she was sad, because he was sad, because they didn’t know
how to talk anymore, because because because, did it matter? When Aaron hit her, Delia thought
of her mother’s face in the hospital that last time Delia had seen her. It was shrunken, etched out
of bone, swimming above the sheets that were starched in a way that could only mean impending
death. She thought her own face must have looked like that when Aaron’s hand connected with
her cheekbone. Not shocked, not hurt, just dead, almost dying, lost forever. She couldn’t really
even say what they had been fighting about. They weren’t yelling. They were just having dinner.
They were just doing what they’d done for eight years. Done. Wouldn’t do anymore.
In the midst of the early spring evening, Delia was abruptly sure of that.
She wandered through the rest of the ruins. There wasn’t much to see, really. The train
arch, a few buildings, rotting and rusted out, shells that didn’t know how to echo. The edges of
evening were purpling the sky. She wouldn’t be able to see anything soon, unless there was a full
moon. Still, Delia stood there, looking the reality of what had haunted her throughout her life. It
was nothing. It was mentioned only because a railroad once ran through it, remembered only

Thistle, Utah

10

because it was a surprisingly costly landslide. No one died. No one mourned it too severely.
Thistle was just a word now, the name of a particularly annoying plant. It wasn’t even a story.
The last building Delia came upon, at the farthest reaches of what you couldn’t really call
a town, was still choked with water. Thigh-deep and murky, Delia put her palm against the
liquid. It responded, sending concentric circles out into the dark. The structure looked like a
fluid-filled lung, gasping for air. A face bloated from chemo, from a punch, like something that
refused to leave the earth, but stood, insisting upon its existence. Delia held her breath in the
pause between the now…and whatever would follow after. But Thistle was silent. Thistle was
dead.
April 17, 1983 no was ordinary day. It was the day of two very significant events: the
birth of Delia Constance Brown and the death of the town of Thistle.
In the gathering dark, she slumped against the outside husk of what was once a home, and
began to suck in the slightly fusty air in giant, greedy gulps. The stars were winking on above
her. There were so many without the light pollution of Salt Lake. If she floated away from
herself now, there would be no way to come back. She would just keep floating, forever, up and
up and up. She would bump into a star and burn out. She kept breathing, hard and harder until
the cold air made her lungs hurt and she felt the space they took up in her ribcage as a clean
outline.
The stories banged against her ribs, as if they finally wanted to vacate their warm spot in
Delia’s chest. They no longer cooed, but screamed. The stories wailed and thumped in time with
her heart, asking, pleading, begging. They were awake. They were ready to live.
Delia let them go.

Thistle, Utah

11

For a moment, she thought she could hear a voice, or an echo of a voice. For a moment,
she thought someone could be, should be, maybe was there. For a moment, there was at least the
idea of someone else, out there in the dark.
“Hello?” But Delia’s voice didn’t even return to her. No one answered.


