Eddie scowled at the invisible magnet stuck to the delete key. Each time his fingers would start
to type the next literary classic, his lag bolt of a pinkie would veer out of formation and strike
the menacing square. An hour of work, and the only thing on the screen was his reflection.
Professor Wilder had said that writing was like a river. Never reaching its destination as the
crow flew, it took its time, sometimes with a roar, sometimes a trickle. Allow it to meander,
she'd said. Let it flow. Sure, you might get caught in an occasional eddy. You might even get
stuck behind a log jam, aka writer's block. It was temporary. Eventually, the river would break
through or go around. Eddie wasn't so sure. Afterall, the Colorado River had been shackled by
Hoover Dam for nearly a century.
He didn't have a century. It was ten o’clock at night and his outline was due tomorrow.
Maybe a break would help. He stepped outside his dorm room and wandered down the hall.
When he returned, he checked his text messages. Then his Instagram account. Then he played
video games. Then he did his laundry.
Eddie slumped in his chair. An Engineering major, he told his parents he took Intro to
Creative Writing as an easy elective so he could devote more time to his harder classes. In
truth, he did it so that he could devote more time to partying. But now, it was almost midnight,
and his brain was fried from thinking instead of drinking.
Screw this. He clapped his laptop closed, yanked the switch to his reading lamp, and flopped
onto his bed. He didn't want to be awake when Chet stumbled in and rambled on about the
epic night Eddie had missed. It was early enough in the semester that he could drop the writing
1

Redemption at Jefferson High

class. He'd cancel it and sign up for Jazz in America. Relieved that he’d willed his assignment
from existence, he closed his eyes.
Sleep came in fits. The late-night energy drink may have been the culprit, or perhaps the
unconscious brain refused to accept the terms of surrender sanctioned by the conscious brain.
A flicker of thought lit a space in his mind like the afterimage of his reading lamp. Vague,
shadow cloaked ideas floated on the fringe of the psyche. His teacher's voice echoed. Draw
ideas from your own experience. Transform your passion and emotion into words. The flame
intensified and thoughts took shape.
He sprung out of bed. It was nearly two o’clock in the morning. Chet must've crashed at Jill's
place, so Eddie had the room to himself. Draw from his own experience. He could do that. He
pried the laptop open and typed. His fingers and brain achieved Rolex synchronization; no
disgruntled saboteur this time. Ideas surged like a tsunami. They didn’t pussyfoot around the
logjam; they blasted through it, shattering and splintering the tangled obstruction. His fingers
banished the delete key, refusing to acknowledge its presence even as an ally against the
common typo. They dutifully transcribed his thoughts, molded them into a cohesive roadmap
for his story.
A screech startled him out of his writing binge. The alarm clock. He’d pulled an all-nighter;
not the first. The flurry of finger strokes subsided, and he struck the last key – save. He’d
finished the outline. Professor Wilder would be blown away.

***

2

Redemption at Jefferson High

On a scale of one-to-being suspended on a flagpole by his wedged tighty whities, Blaine pegged
his experience at a five. Back in Wichita, he was considered one of the cool kids, but those
pages had been written and turned, the dog-eared folds faded. Now he was the new kid in a
new town at a new high school.
The standard bully clichés had been toppled. Tall and handsome with thick wavy hair, Blaine
lacked pimples, obesity, and a clarinet case plastered with Star Trek stickers. The other kid,
Jack, was neither a jock nor physically imposing, but damn was he a marksman with words.
Blaine considered himself Jack’s equal in this department, but with nobody to laugh at his
clever jokes, he always ended up shooting blanks when he returned fire.
Blaine was removing his algebra book from his locker when Jack and one of his cronies
approached. Sporting similar haircuts and polo shirts, they had the look of guys who wooed
their neighbors with platitudes of sir and ma'am before deflowering their daughters at prom.
Jack stopped in front of Blaine and telegraphed the verbal strike with a shit-eating grin.
“What’s up, Stain?”
On cue, Jack’s friend erupted in laughter.
“Good one," Blaine said. "That’s funny because it rhymes with my name." Then he turned to
Jack’s friend. “Is it my imagination or did someone with the unfortunate name of Jack just start
a name war with me?”
The other boy crinkled his brow in confusion, but Jack got it. “Good point, Stain. You’re
clever. That’s what I like about you.”
“I wasn’t aware you liked me,” Blaine said.
“I don’t. I just like that you have a big mouth. Maybe I'll plant my fist in it.”
3

Redemption at Jefferson High

“I wouldn’t recommend it,” Blaine said. “Poor soil conditions. Nothing would grow.”
“What a douche,” Jack’s friend said. “C’mon let’s head. I can’t be late to third hour or
dickwad will give me another detention.”
Jack nodded and then turned to Blaine. “Later, Stain.” He paused a moment as if a thought
struck. “Shit Stain.”
The boys roared at that one, high fived, and marched off to their next class.
Blaine had weathered the incident, but by the end of the day, a rumor had circulated that he
had shit his pants in class; hence his new nickname, Shit Stain Blaine.
During the walk home he absently kicked a rock along a sidewalk that fronted a few rundown shops. His shoulders slumped and his hands found the depths of his pockets. Why had he
been targeted? Why was anyone targeted? There seemed to be a natural pecking order and
kids like Jack did the pecking.
"Hey, boy."
The voice startled him. He turned to see a woman hunched against a store front under a
neon sign that read hecks Cashed. She shared a blanket with a chihuahua.
"Hey," Blaine said. No point in ignoring her or running away. No threat here.
"You got a few dollars?" she said. A rash crept under the wisps of hair along her scalp like an
army of fire ants through dead grass.
Blaine opened his wallet, withdrew a five, and handed it to her. Tomorrow's lunch money.
"God bless," she said. "Mabel's gonna eat good tonight."
Blaine didn't know if Mabel was the woman or the dog – hopefully the woman – but he was
glad to help. When he got home, he retreated to his bedroom. It had been a shitty day, no pun
4

Redemption at Jefferson High

intended. He tried to summon an answer to his own problem, but his thoughts settled on the
interaction at the storefront. Life, the ultimate bully, had selected Mabel as its victim. She
hadn't always been that way. She was someone's daughter, probably a high school student at
one time. How did she end up on that sidewalk? Blaine rubbed his eyes. Were the tears for
himself or the homeless woman? He didn't know.

***

Eddie’s all-nighter had paid off – sort of. He received full credit on the assignment, but so did
everyone else. Five points for participation. The handwritten comments from his teacher read
like a back-handed compliment. Nice job. Don’t be afraid to stray from the path as your
characters reveal themselves.
Why would he need to stray from the path? The path was good.
Class had just ended, and the other students were shuffling out. The teacher was hunched at
the podium while placing her lecture notes into her briefcase.
Eddie approached. “Excuse me, professor. Do you have a minute?”
Professor Wilder unfolded her thin frame. Her smooth skin seemed to clash with her grey
curls making her resemble a child wearing a wig. “Sure, what’s up?”
Eddie handed her the outline. “I didn’t understand your comments.”
She scanned the page. “Oh? Which part?”
“Everything after nice job,” Eddie said.

5

Redemption at Jefferson High

A gurgle escaped her mouth. Eddie wasn’t sure if it was a laugh or a sigh. She motioned to a
table and they sat.
“I’m sorry, I have lots of students. You are?”
“Eddie.”
“Right. Your outline’s just a tool, Eddie. Don’t let it stifle you. Ignore it if it suits you.” Her
glasses were perched on the tip of her nose, and she peeked over them as if they too were a
tool to be ignored.
“Do you think I need to stray?” Eddie said. “Ignore the outline, I mean?”
“Maybe. Maybe not. It has potential. A bit heavy handed. Not every story has to shock the
reader. That part will be up to your characters. Let them decide how it plays out.”
“That sounds like a cryptic English teacher thing – no offense,” Eddie said. “I’m the one
writing the story. The characters aren’t real.”
“Aren’t they?” she said.
Eddie frowned. She seemed to be playing the part of the eccentric philosopher saying weird
things to inspire thought. It wasn’t working. “The characters are just a figment of my
imagination.”
“Your characters are as real as you allow them to be,” she said. “They may even surprise
you.”
That seemed to be all he would get from her. “I’ll keep that in mind,” he said. He rose from
the chair.
“Eddie, check with me again after you’ve written a couple chapters. There’s a certain magic
to writing you have to experience firsthand to appreciate.”
6

Redemption at Jefferson High

***

The knock at Blaine's bedroom door chased the tears from his eyes. No respectable high
schooler would let his father see him cry. Especially his father.
He pressed pause on the game controller and wiped his face with the back of his hand.
"Come in."
A ray of light spilled into the room but was quickly eclipsed by the figure that filled the
doorway.
"Hey dad."
"Hey buddy, how was school today?" If his father’s physical presence failed to intimidate, the
baritone growl finished the job.
"Fine."
"Did you – Hey, you're not smoking weed are you?" He peered into Blaine's eyes.
"Yeah dad, I'm smoking some killer ganja. Want a hit?"
His father inched closer until their eyeballs were almost touching.
Blaine playfully shoved him. "Personal space, man. I'm not smoking weed. I just got something
in my eye."
"Very funny,” his father said. “You get your math test back yet?"
"You mean my quiz? Yeah, I got an A".
"Right on!" he said. "Nice work."
"Thanks."
7

Redemption at Jefferson High

"Those boys still giving you a hard time?"
Blaine shrugged. "Kind of. Nothing I can't handle." And no point getting his father riled up or
he'd start talking about the panacea to everything. Sports.
"Man, I wish I was there. I'd grab their skinny-ass necks and – "
"And you'd go to jail for assaulting a minor."
"It might be worth it,” his father said. “I can’t just sit around and do nothing while my kid
gets picked on. What about that fighting class we talked about?"
"It's not like that. It’s mostly just talk."
"You could make it more than talk. Kick their asses and shut them up."
"Sure," Blaine said. "They call me a name, I knock them out, and I get suspended."
"There's always sports."
Blaine turned so his father wouldn't see him roll his eyes.
"Don't roll your eyes, son. I mean it. When I was in school, the athletes never got picked on."
Here we go again. Playing sports for Blaine meant riding the pine. Bench warmers weren’t
knocking it out of the park on the field or in the popularity contest. “Why does there have to be
a pecking order? Someone always seems to be at the bottom.” He had intended the question to
reference himself, but he couldn't help thinking of Mabel, the homeless woman.
His father shrugged. “I don’t know. Just seems to be the way it is.”
“Did you ever pick on anyone?” Blaine could’ve asked if his father was on the receiving end
of the bullying, but the thought was laughable.
“The kids I hung out with weren’t always nice to the brainy kids,” his father said.
"Why? How come you weren't nice to them?"
8

Redemption at Jefferson High

His father sat on his bed and sighed. "I don't know. I was probably insecure about something
or looking for attention. I’ve grown up a lot since then."
"Maybe this is payback," Blaine said.
His father quieted and seemed to study the floor. “Maybe.”
Silence filled the room. His father seemed to be out of ideas.
Blaine had tried to provoke him with the payback comment implying that his father’s actions
as a teenager somehow came back to haunt him. Seeing his father sitting there looking so
deflated, Blaine regretted it. A thought struck and he decided to try a different tactic. "Dad, do
you believe in free will?"
“Hmm? That’s a strange question.”
"It’s just that – well, you said you don't even know why you teased other kids. Maybe it was
beyond your control, and you were just meant to be a bully."
"Sounds like a cop out," his father said. "If I was a dick, I should own up to it. Where are you
getting this from anyway?"
"Philosophy class," Blaine said.
Now it was his father's turn to roll his eyes.
"I'm serious," Blaine said. "There's a popular belief that everything we do is part of some
predetermined plan. If God is all-knowing then he already knows what we're going to do before
we do it. If that's the case, then we don't really have free will."
"What if I change my mind about something?" his father asked. "Have steak for dinner
instead of chicken?"

9

Redemption at Jefferson High

"Then it was always determined that you were going to have steak even though you thought
you were going to have chicken."
"Maybe," his father said. "Interesting thought. Like the story's already been written and
we're just going through the motions."
"Exactly,” Blaine said. “That's the thought, anyway."
They continued the discussion over dinner – steak – and Blaine felt better afterwards.

***

The river was surging now. Class five rapids. Eddie’s story was a raft and each strike of the key a
command: paddle forward, left back, high side, paddle forward. He guided the story effortlessly
through the first two chapters following his outline like a map. Every word leapt onto the
screen unencumbered by the thesaurus. Every simile was as clever as a catfish stealing a worm
from a three-pronged hook.
The words continued to flow. He let the tension build, teasing his audience and
foreshadowing the event that would cause every reader to lose his shit.
He’d been at it for hours. His stomach begged for ingestion and his bowels pleaded for
expulsion. He ignored them both. Like a spoiled child, his phone cried for attention, its
vibrations and ringtones conspiring to derail his progress. The text message from Chet earned
no more than a sideways glance. Dude, where are you? This party's off the hook!
"Off the hook," Eddie said. “Good idea." He clicked his phone off completely, something he
hadn't done in months. Was he really writing a story instead of going out with his friends?
10

Redemption at Jefferson High

The raft that was a story approached a critical point, a waterfall. His protagonist had to
endure three more sentences of plot and then boom! Eddie was already thinking four, five, six
sentences later. As the story’s creator, he was omniscient, all powerful and all knowing.
The raft teetered on the edge of the waterfall, its bow kissing the misty air.
Then something happened. Somewhere in Eddie’s brain, a synapse fired and gave an
instruction to his fingers. They rejected it. The directive didn’t make sense. As his typing ground
to a halt, the waterfall froze and trapped the raft at the top. Eddie stared at the screen in
disbelief, his fingers still twitching from the muscle memory of the key strikes.
The next day, Eddie had tried to corner his teacher at the podium after class, but she’d
silenced him with a wave of her hand and instructed him to schedule a meeting during her
office hours later in the week.

Three days later, he sat facing her. A sea of clutter separated them as if they were two
peninsulas. There must be a desk under there somewhere. The array of papers, books, trinkets,
and fast food wrappers couldn’t be suspended in mid-air. A corkboard on the wall was similarly
fashioned. Each paper was secured by a single pushpin, never centered, so the sheets hung at
haphazard angles, not one parallel to another.
“Nice office,” Eddie said. “Looks like my dorm room.”
“Well, then you have the makings of a fine writer,” his teacher said. “Messy workstations are
the sign of a right-brained person. That’s where creativity comes from, you know.”
“I’ll try that one on my roommate,” Eddie said.
She smiled. “How’s the story coming along?”
11

Redemption at Jefferson High

“Good. I like what I’ve written so far.”
“I’m looking forward to reading it,’ she said. “What brings you in today?”
Eddie had shelved the story for a few days, but it had been on his mind a lot. “Remember
when you said to let the characters decide what happens in the story, and that they may
surprise me?”
“Sure.”
“What did you mean?”
She made the laugh/sigh noise again. Did she think something was funny or was she
annoyed? He still didn’t know.
“Think of it this way,” she said. “If you’ve developed your characters, then each will have a
unique voice and personality. How they behave will be determined by who they are - their
upbringing, their values, their mood.”
Eddie nodded.
“Humans are in-the-moment creatures. Today, I had planned to do three things: grade
papers, eat Paleo, and tidy up my office. You can see how the third one went.”
“And the second one.” Eddie pointed to a Taco Bell wrapper.
“Zero for three,” she said. “In other words, humans don’t follow the outlines we create for
ourselves. Neither should our characters unless we want them to be boring and predictable.”
“Then why do an outline?”
“Why, indeed?” she answered.

12

Redemption at Jefferson High

Then why did you assign the stupid outline? Eddie thought. He kept his mouth shut. He was
starting to understand. “Do you think our characters have free will even though we created
them?”
“Most definitely,” she answered. “Did one of your characters surprise you?”
“Yep.”
“Thought so,” she said. “Want my advice? Embrace it. Your character knows more about
himself than you do. If he does something different from what you expected, he did it for a
reason.”
Maybe the oddball English teacher was on to something.
“Thanks, professor. I think I get it.” When Eddie left her office, he was already writing the
next sentences in his mind.

***

Sticks and stones had nothing on the invisible projectiles that crushed morale and obliterated
self-esteem. For the last two months, Blaine had endured every form of psychological warfare.
What had started as a once-a-day event, now pervaded every waking moment. Before, during,
and after class, Jack's taunts tortured him. Blaine had tried everything to no avail. Whenever
Jack emerged, it would trigger an uncontrollable physical and emotional response like Pavlov’s
dogs. Even breathing seemed to shut down. Inhale, exhale, good job, careful not to
hyperventilate. Don’t make an ass out of yourself by passing out.

13

Redemption at Jefferson High

Blaine had nearly reached a breaking point the previous week and had faked sick for three
days so he could stay home. Having missed the lectures, he’d fallen behind in his two hardest
classes. His few friendships had deteriorated. Anyone hanging out with a leper was sure to
contract the ugly disease. Had he pushed them away or had they bolted out of selfpreservation? He’d also blown up at his father. How the hell could a former bully understand
what he was going through? Why did his mother have to die? He needed her.
What he didn’t need was Jack’s shit, but it would come soon, as the transition between third
and fourth period had arrived. As he spun the combination lock to his locker, a voice shattered
the ambient noise of ten different conversations within earshot.
“Oh, God. What is that stench?”
Blaine knew there could be only one possible origination for the imaginary smell that had
infiltrated Jack’s sensitive nostrils.
As Jack came closer, he sniffed everything and everyone in sight. Nasal whistles and snorts
were exaggerated to ridiculousness. “It’s not the bench. Not you, Anne. Nope, nothing under
here.”
Most of the students in the breezeway laughed. A few, like Blaine, were not amused. They
knew what was coming.
“I think I’m getting warmer. Warmer. Warmer. Goddamn! Shit Stain is that you? Did you shit
your pants again?”
Some students frowned or mumbled under their breath that Jack was an asshole. Not many
laughed, but laughs are louder than facial expressions and mumbles, so to Blaine’s ears, the
whole school was howling.
14

Redemption at Jefferson High

Blaine loaded a response from his arsenal. I smell it too, Jack <sniff> <sniff>. I think it’s your
breath. Have you been eating shit sandwiches again? He wanted to say it, but he froze. He
wanted to fight back, but the relentless barrage over the last several months had snuffed his
ability to mount a counterattack. He just stood there.
Jack kept going, but some instinctual defense mechanism triggered deep within Blaine’s
psyche and filtered most of it out. He caught something about a diaper, but the rest had
escaped him.
That night, Blaine’s room was dark, but his mind descended to a much darker place.
The next morning, he got dressed, ate his oatmeal, stowed his books in his backpack, and
shoved his father’s pistol in the waistband of his cargo pants.
There were two ways to stop the torment; the only difference between the two was who
would be in front of the bullet when it exploded from the chamber. Since he’d survived the
night, his choice had been made.
Blaine spotted Jack at the end of the hallway and walked toward him. Anger smoldered in his
gut like a heap of burning coal. He summoned the memories, re-lived the pain, fueled the coals
like a blacksmith’s bellows. A sense of detachment washed over him as he closed the distance.
Jack looked up. The corners of his mouth pulled into the beginning of a grin. It faltered when
he met Blaine’s eyes.
Blaine’s fingers gripped the handle of the weapon still concealed under the folds of his
untucked shirt. Strength and power radiated from the gun and surged through his veins.

***
15

Redemption at Jefferson High

The meeting with Professor Wilder had invigorated Eddie. She’d said to let the characters
decide their fate. He opened his laptop and scrolled to the last sentence he’d written. He read it
again.

Blaine’s fingers gripped the handle of the weapon still concealed under the folds of his
untucked shirt. Strength and power radiated from the gun and surged through his veins.

Eddie thought about it as he perused his outline. The pages chronicled the events of a school
shooting. Could the constant torment have led his character to pull the trigger? He thought so.
There were times in Eddie's childhood when he could almost envision himself pulling the
trigger. Blaine, on the other hand, fiercely opposed it. Convinced that his character had free
will, Eddie wrote the next sentences.

Suddenly, Blaine let go. He released the gun and the anger that went along with it. The gun
represented weakness not strength. He thought of his father. The man had done his best to raise
a son on his own; Blaine would not dishonor his name. He thought of Jack. If Blaine took the
boy’s life, he would rob him of the chance to change as his father had. He thought of Mabel. The
woman had confronted far worse than Blaine had. People like her needed help from people like
Blaine. He wouldn’t be of any use to them in prison.
He found himself facing Jack. The gun was still hidden under his clothes. His breathing was as
steady as a sniper's trigger finger.
16

Redemption at Jefferson High

“You okay, Shit Stain?” Jack said. The comment lacked its usual bite. He seemed to be unsure
of himself.
Blaine was okay. A mischievous grin spread across his face and a twinkle lit his eyes. “Never
better, Jack-off.”

Blaine’s smile must’ve been contagious; Eddie had been infected. He had experienced the
magic of writing. If engineering followed straight lines and precision, writing embraced the
blurred and the vague. Sure, you could build a bridge across the river, but why not surrender to
its current and emerge somewhere unexpected?
Eddie looked at his outline, selected all text after chapter three, and struck the delete key.
Who needs an outline anyway?
The last thing he did was to delete the title: Tragedy at Jefferson High. Maybe Blaine could
help him come up with a new one.

17


