In the fall, they moved to Charlotte, North Carolina, and Mom took a job as a cashier at
Jimmy’s Sausage and Pork Outlet. Boy was young, Girl was younger, and both their fathers had
disappeared.
It was in Charlotte that Mom invented Charlotte’s Web, a piece of thinly sliced pork from
the discount meat bin with mustard squirted on top in the outline of a spider web. Charlotte’s
Web was garnished with a single piece of broccoli or buttered cauliflower, with a trail of mustard
connected to it to represent the dangling spider.
“Who’s hungry?” she’d always ask, just before setting the food on the table. Girl could
talk by then, but she couldn’t quite pronounce Charlotte. Instead, she’d yell Char-load! and slap
her fists against the table.
Mom, who had grown thin since their move from Florida, would watch wearily as Boy
and Girl ate the same dinner six nights a week. Sunday was Different Day, her only full day off.
She’d routinely get creative on Different Day, after they arrived home from church, of course.
Oscar the Grouch was the name of a mound of lettuce with two black olive eyes and a
frowny face made of ranch dressing. Michelangelo was the name of a circular pile of lettuce
sectioned off by a strip of carrots topped with black olives for eyes. Kermit the Frog was the
same basic design as Oscar the Grouch, except that Kermit had a ranch dressing smile. Rush
Limbaugh—Mom’s favorite radio personality—was the name of a pile of angel hair noodles
fried in pork fat and decorated with ketchup.
Black Olive Eyes 1

Making just ten cents above minimum wage, Mom worked tirelessly six days a week at
Jimmy’s Sausage and Pork Outlet just to keep up with the bills. A few of the women she worked
with confessed to her that they’d recently started receiving food stamps. They talked about how
their family’s diets had improved, how they weren’t paid enough at Jimmy’s. They tried to
convince Mom to join the program on more than one occasion. “You deserve it,” they’d say.
“Ain’t no shame in applying,” they’d say.
Eventually, one of the ladies printed out an application for Mom and gave it to her in an
envelope. Mom brought the envelope home that night, her head pounding from a recurring
migraine. She asked Boy to prepare some cereal for his sister while she rested.
“Char-Load!” Girl said, growing angry when Boy handed her a bowl of generic Fruit
Loops.
“Not tonight,” Boy said.
“I want Char-load!”
Mom could hear them from the other room but was too tired to say anything. She was
thinking of Santiago, Girl’s father, and how much things had changed in the three years and a
half since he’d left. She was thinking about day care costs, bills, the clicking sound her car had
been making, the clothes that needed washing. She was a woman with two children, from two
different fathers, with a whole slew of problems.
The next morning, Mom made each of her children a Madonna—a plate of scrambled
eggs arranged like the pop singer’s hair around two black olive eyes and sliced apples for lips.

Black Olive Eyes 2

“What’s this?” Boy asked, holding up the envelope with Mom’s name written across it in
cursive letters.
“Oh, I meant to throw that away,” she said.
“Madonna is yummy!” Girl said, smiling with her mouth full of eggs.
“Don’t talk with your mouth full,” Mom said.
Boy opened the envelope and looked over the small stack of papers.
“Application for Food and Nutrition Services. What’s this?”
“Look, I want you to remember this, ok?” Mom said, snatching the application from him.
“Yes, ma’am.”
“Just because we’re poor, doesn’t mean we should ask our government for anything.”
“Yes, ma’am.”
“This here’s an application for free food, but it ain’t free. Somebody’s got to pay for it,
and that somebody is the American taxpayer. Some of those black women at work think I
qualify. But I ain’t signing up. Our government is already in our business enough. To hell with
all of them.”
“It’s a free food application?” Boy asked.
“Nothing’s free, you remember that,” Mom said. “There are too many people asking for a
handout in this country. You’ll learn this one day. No such thing as a free lunch. Got it?”
“Yes, ma’am.”
Black Olive Eyes 3

Mom tore the application in half in front of Boy and Girl and tossed it in the trash can.
That afternoon, Boy picked up Girl from daycare and they walked the three blocks to
their duplex. While Girl watched TV, Boy retrieved the free food application from the trashcan
and smoothed it out on the table. He went into the bedroom that he shared with Girl and pressed
the two crumbled halves under their bed, alongside a few shark drawings he’d been working on.
Mom came home that night with a paper sack brimming with groceries. She prepared
Pinky and the Brain: two pizzas, one round and one long and thin, topped with mozzarella and
tomato slices for eyes. For dessert she made blue Jello with cottage cheese eyes, which she called
The Tick.
“See,” she said as Boy and Girl ate dessert, “we don’t need any damn handouts from
anybody.”
“Bad word,” Girl said.
“That’s right, Honey, and I don’t want you saying it.”
The dinners that followed were lavish and extravagant.
Saturday they ate Reading Rainbow: a plate full of tomatoes, cheesy macaroni, green
beans, pork, and eggplant arranged in arcs above one another. Sunday they had Ghostbusters: a
green soup made of pork stock, peas, cabbage, cucumber, green onions, and spinach. Dessert was
an obligatory Marshmallow Man: a plate of marshmallows arranged in the pattern of a face,
rimmed with chocolate syrup, and blue sprinkles. Mom was doing her best to drive her point
home.

Black Olive Eyes 4

Monday they had Ren and Stimpy: a piece of sliced ham with pineapple eyes, carrot slice
eyebrows, and a cherry tomato nose. It was served alongside a plate of pork and beans topped
with black olive eyes. Tuesday was Angelica—a variation on the Madonna with eggplant bows
in her hair.
“See,” she kept telling Boy, “we’re doing just fine.”
Wednesday night she made each of her children a Ronald Reagan: a scoop of refried
beans for hair, Mom’s trademark black olive eyes, slices of grilled pork arranged to form the rest
of his face. A bowl of Jelly Belly’s was served for dessert.
Thursday was Tom and Jerry night. Jerry was crafted from a slab of pork loin covered in
brown gravy with tortilla eyes and an asparagus tail. Tom was a small chocolate cake for dessert
decorated with dark purple icing.
On Friday afternoon, Mom got called into the manager’s office at Jimmy’s. The office
was frigid, and the air condition rattled like loose pocket change above the windowsill. The
manager sat next to a shriveled man with a shaved head and a tattooed scowl. The little bald man
began speaking and the manager crossed his arms in front of his chest, shaking his head with
disappointment.
She tuned both men out, hoping it would be over soon. The bald man turned a little gray
television towards her and made her watch herself transfer money from the register into her
apron. “That’s called stealing,” he said. She watched the video with a blank expression on her
face. She wanted to cry, to scream, but all she could say was, “I was planning on paying you
back after payday.”

Black Olive Eyes 5

Mom was escorted outside by the bald man. As soon as she shut the door of her car, she
lost her composure. She slammed her fists against her steering wheel, crying savagely and
cursing herself. On the way home, she spent the rest of the money she had in her purse on
groceries. That night, she made Jesus Food: fried trout, bread glazed with honey, and grape juice
for wine.
“I want Char-load,” Girl whined.
“This tastes strange,” Boy said, poking at the trout.
Mom started crying and left the table without eating. She went to her room and lay down
on the bed. Soon, Boy and Girl joined her. The crawled under the covers and pressed themselves
into her frame. She fell asleep with her nose pressed into Boy’s sandy blonde hair. On Saturday,
they were back to eating Charlotte’s Web, which they also ate for dinner on Sunday night after
church.
Mom left for work the following Monday, which was the last lie she’d tell, or so she
promised herself. Girl had a cough, and Boy was instructed to stay home and look after her.
While his sister slept on the couch, Boy began tidying up their shared room. After
making the bed, he decided to take another look at the free food application.
He taped the pages back together, and after double-checking to make sure Girl was still
asleep, Boy began filling out the application with a red pen. Social security number? Boy wrote
in their home telephone number. Gross monthly income? How could income be gross? He
scribbled a question mark in that box.

Black Olive Eyes 6

Was anyone a migrant or seasonal worker? Boy wrote ‘yes.’ Mom worked in every
season and sometimes she got migraines. Yearly shelter costs? Again, Boy wrote in a question
mark. Total household cash/savings? This he could answer!
Boy climbed onto the counter and opened the old Danish cookie tin on top of the
refrigerator. Mom’s savings. The smell of coin and paper met his nostrils. Standing on the
counter, he counted out the money, separating the coins into matching amounts. Forty-two
dollars and twenty-three cents.
Does everyone in the home buy and cook meals together? Why wasn’t there a box for
sometimes? He wrote ‘no.’ Does anyone have an EBT card? Mom had a bank card, so ‘yes.’ Is
anyone a migrant or seasonal worker? Why did they keep asking this question?
Boy fell asleep at the kitchen table once he came to the medical bills for persons over 60
section. He awoke thirty minutes later to find girl tugging at him and coughing. He picked her up
and carried her into the living room and turned on the TV. He hid the application back
underneath their bed and returned to watch Sesame Street with his sister.
That night, Mom hardly said a word as she made a variation of Charlotte’s Web using
ketchup instead of mustard and the rest of the trout instead of pork. They ate silently together,
both Boy and Girl keeping quiet about the slightly soured trout. For dessert they shared Cookie
Monster’s Snack: a stack of off-brand chocolate chip cookies warmed in the microwave, drizzled
with sweeten condensed milk, and served with a glass of two percent milk for dipping.
After dinner, as they watched Nick at Nite together, Boy noticed a few silver tears sliding
down Mom’s face in the lightwash cast by the television. He reached for her hand.

Black Olive Eyes 7

“What’s wrong?” he asked, squeezing her hand.
“Oh, it’s nothing.”
“You’re crying,” he said, growing confused.
Girl looked up at Mom and started to cry too. “Mommy’s crying,” she said through her
tears. Seeing his mom and his sister cry, Boy started wondering if he too should be crying.
Another look at Mom and he decided there must be a good reason. Boy started to cry, and all
three of them cried together while the theme music for Dragnet played on the television.
The next day, Boy and Girl stayed home again while Mom left silently to continue her
search for a new job. For lunch Boy made Wal-Mart Face: mac and cheese arranged in a circle
around black olive eyes, and a smile made out of purple grapes. Girl grew tired at her usual time
and Boy tucked her in on the couch after giving her a spoonful of cherry flavored medicine.
After she’d fallen asleep, he searched Mom’s room until he found her pocket dictionary.
He retrieved the free food application from under his mattress and ran to the kitchen table.
Does anyone in your household participate in a Food Distribution Program on an Indian
reservation? Boy looked up the word reservation: the act of reserving something. Boy then
looked up the word reserve: refrain from using or disposing (of something). After thinking for a
minute about what any of this could possibly have to do with Indians, Boy wrote ‘no’ in the box.
What assets do people in your household have? Boy looked up the definition of asset: a
useful or valuable thing, or property owned by a person or a company. He wrote ‘TV and car’ in
the appropriate box. He wondered if he should count their beds, but decided against it.

Black Olive Eyes 8

Mutual fund? He looked up both words and guessed that Mom didn’t have a mutual fund.
He sure didn’t. Prepaid burial contract? Ditto. Stocks or Bonds? Mom did say once she had a
savings bond, but Boy didn’t know how much it was worth. He wrote ‘yes’ in the box followed
by a question mark for good measure.
Rent or mortgage? He looked up the word for mortgage: the charging of real (or
personal) property by a debtor to a creditor as security for a debt. Boy thought for a minute and
wrote ‘no’ in the provided box. He then remembered Mom saying something about paying rent
and scratched the ‘no’ out and wrote ‘rent’ instead. Has anyone received a Low Income Energy
Assistance Program (LIEAP) check? Mom never said anything about it, so he guessed ‘no.’
By signing this application I am saying that I have told the truth on this form.
Boy signed his name on the top signature line. On the witness line, he signed Girl’s
name. He read the application over once more, making sure he had filled in all the blanks. Now
he just needed to figure out whom to give it to.
Girl stirred in the other room. She’d had a nightmare, and cried and coughed until Boy
came running. The free food application remained on the dining room table.
“Are you hungry?” he asked. “We have some Bugs Bunny Food.”
“No, I want Mommy!”
“She’ll come back soon, I promise.”
Girl sat up and hugged Boy. He wiped her tears away with his t-shirt and kissed her
forehead.

Black Olive Eyes 9

“Want a piece of gum?” he asked.
“I want Mommy.”
“She’ll come home soon, after her work finishes. Just a few hours, ok?”
“I want her now!”
“It’s ok, it’s ok. Hey, Sesame Street is on…”
He turned the TV on. Girl settled in next to him, her eyes fixated on the screen. She stuck
her thumb in her mouth and began sucking. Soon, she was smiling and nodding her head up and
down to a song about the letter S. Boy held her hand, occasionally wiping the sweat away on his
pants. The bolt on the front door turned to the right.
“Mommy!” Girl yelled. She hopped off the couch.
“Hi,” Mom said, opening the door.
“You’re early,” Boy said, standing.
Mom ruffled her hand through his hair as she walked to the kitchen. Girl followed close
behind her, coughing. Boy sat back down on the couch, mesmerized by the TV.
“It’s close to dinner time!” she called out. “What do you guy’s think? We could do a
Barney?”
“Char-load!”
From the kitchen he heard Mom say, “We had a Char-load last night. We could also do
a…hey, what’s this?”
Black Olive Eyes 10

The free food application. Boy froze, unsure of what to do.
Boy ran to the kitchen and found Mom looking at the application. “Did you do this?” she
asked. “Did you fill this out?”
Boy started to cry. “I’m sorry, Mom.”
“Why don’t you ever listen to me goddammit!? I told you we’re not getting food stamps!”
She threw her purse onto the kitchen table. It slid off the table, taking the salt and pepper shakers
with it. “Do we look like a bunch of goddamn beggars to you?” she yelled. “Do we!?”
Girl started to cry after the salt and pepper shakers shattered onto the floor.
“I told you NO! That’s not who we are GODDAMMIT!”
“I’m sorry, Mom!”
Mom ripped up the application into tiny little pieces. The pieces fell onto the floor like
dirty snowflakes. She grabbed Boy by the shoulder and led him to the bathroom. “Put your hands
on the counter and pull your pants down!”
Boy struggled to get out of his jeans.
“Now! Dammit! Now!”
“No!” Girl yelled from outside the bathroom door. Mom removed her belt and wrapped it
once to form a loop.
“Mom, no!” Boy pleaded.

Black Olive Eyes 11

Mom raised her hand, the belt high in the air, the shiny belt beaming under the bright
bathroom light. She raised her hand a few inches higher, clenched her fist tightly around the
looped belt, looked at herself in the bathroom mirror, saw her son’s tears, saw her daughter
screaming in the hallway, saw her own tears, and dropped the belt.
She whispered, “I-I-I can’t do it.”
Mom sat down on the toilet, sobbing uncontrollably. Boy joined her first, hugging her
neck. Girl crawled into her lap.
“I’m sorry,” Boy kept saying. “I was just trying to help.”
“I know, Sweetie, I know,” Mom cried. “Jesus, what have I become?”
“I’m sorry,” Girl said, mimicking Boy.
“It’s ok. Both of you, it’s ok. I love you both.”
“We love you too,” Boy said.
“I want you both to know the truth, ok?”
“Ok,” Boy said.
Mom looked at her two beautiful children spawned from two different men, and started
kissing their tears away. In their little black olive eyes she saw her own pitiful reflection.
“We’re moving soon,” she finally said. It was as close to the truth as she would come.

Black Olive Eyes 12


