A jasmine scented day with angel clouds promising the world on a string of pearls; a
day that saw me at the opening of the Izzy Missoni Spring Collection in my capacity as a
minor reporter for The Courier Mail.
I took shots of the local glitzaratti in attendance, then wrote snappy little captions.
That's when the earth shifted and my stomach fluttered hope.
Incognito in a loo cubicle, I overheard two friends of Marina Keeling gossiping. I
had wondered why she wasn't with the rest of the A List.
Marina has been married for seventeen years to Martin Keeling, the up and coming
bright-eyed boy in politics; now with a stain on his Teflon suit. All thanks to a sixteen year old
girl who had just bobbed up to claim him as her father.
From the shocked tones of my unknowing informers, Marina Keeling feels utterly
betrayed.
I gave scant attention to Izzy's gauzy multiflorous creations as I scooted home with
thoughts of hitting a celebratory bottle of Monkey Bay sauvignon blanc, and the front page,
with a blaze of glory.
Butterfly Wilts – Star Reporter.
Opening the wine and my computer I began my notes:
Has Martin Keeling, minister for family affairs taken his portfolio literally? Sources
close to the family are lending their support to a shocked and distraught Marina Keeling.
This minister, it will be remembered, has for years been loudly lamenting the lack of morality
in modern society...
I rang the office, leaving a cryptic message that I was following a hot lead and
would be in touch when I had hunted down and bagged the ferret.
Dreams of becoming a sought after political journalist took over; private secretaries,
privileged passes through the doors of power and eating the oyster whilst wearing the pearl.
Plummeting back to life on planet Earth, I rummaged in my address book for Marina
Keeling's private number.
Two years before I had done a weekend piece on her at home; it was for a glossy
magazine for which I hoped to do some freelancing.
1

Open Season on Butterflies
I still have the article and slides tucked away in my filing cabinet in a brown return
to sender – unsolicited copy envelope.
I punched in the numbers, hoping she would answer.
When she did, her voice was shaky, but I ploughed on, reminding her when we had
met. I asked for a comment on the rumour about her husband having a sixteen year old
daughter by another woman.
Marina replaced the receiver without uttering another word.
Bugger.
I should have just gone around and wormed my way in. I kept dialling the number. It
was now permanently engaged.
My answer phone flashed a message-waiting signal and I flicked it on.
Forgo the ferrets and get your slack arse into this office – pronto! My boss.
He could wait. He'd be on the floor slobbering at my ankles when he got this story.
Switching on the TV; breaking news had Martin Keeling addressing a crowd of
newsmen on his doorstep; Marina clamped to his side. She did not look happy.
Strewth. Missed the scoop.
Still – I had the photos from my previous interview. I could win some clout with
those. Should be worth a by-line. Maybe a raise.
I turned up the volume as the man explained away a pitiful lack of personal
judgement. Gut-wrenching remorse at causing embarrassment to his party and his loyal,
devoted wife – who, he stated, had fully forgiven him years ago. They had no secrets. And
they as a family, welcomed his newly discovered daughter into the fold.
He may have sounded overjoyed but he sure looked like he'd got his willy caught in
a wringer to me.
The next day I fronted the editor. Waving the photos of Marina under his bulbous
nose, I begged to be allowed to fly with the story; as I had been at the coal face as it unfolded.
I had links. I had unnamed sources. I had insight and intuition oozing from every pore.
He swung his feet up on his desk; he listened to what my angle would be then shook
his head.
Do what you are being paid for and write the girlie stuff on that Tizzy Spring fashion
gig. Unless you want to return to the horoscope section? No? Meanwhile, I'll take those shots
2

Open Season on Butterflies
and what you have so far and give it to a more seasoned male hack.
Izzy, I mumbled.
Jeez. Back to handbags and frocks.
I followed the story as it uncoiled bit by snaky bit. Smiling photos hit the headlines
in all the papers – Martin Keeling and long lost, but never forgotten daughter, Chloe.
According to his current crush on religion, he had knelt in prayer every night
wondering and thinking about her.
Chloe looked like she'd discovered she was the fairy on top of the Christmas tree.
And nary a word about her adoptive parents, Mandy and Ray Parker. I wondered if I could
beg a chance at getting their slant of the events.
Good thinking was the reply from the editor-from-hell. But No. Not this time. I'll
give this one to the boys. You just stick to Titsy and his hats.
Izzy, I said, a bit louder this time.
Those boys sure do adhere together. Like snot to a blanket. It must be some sort of
male bonding on how far they can piss without ever actually hitting the communal urinal.
I have no bloody idea how Lois Lane made it to the big time. Well, yeah I do. She
was a comic character. And she always had Clark Kent, alias Superman. The only telephone
box weirdo I have recourse to is the local flasher. And even he isn't all that reliable.
Dressing in my newly acquired emerald and purple Lycra, I headed for the gym,
where I knew at least one of Marina Keeling's chums hung out.
I was in luck; Cherie Hunnicut was pounding away, wearing out a silver pair of gym
shoes on the walker, and the one next to her vacant.
I smiled in an us-girls-together sort of way and murmured Poor Marina. My heart
bleeds. It is only fair and proper that her side of the story gets told; strictly confidentially and
from a simpatico feminine perspective.
After promising to do a flattering, comprehensive piece on Cherie's house and
wardrobe for the Celebrity House Beautiful supplement, she agreed to an off-the-record tellall of the Keeling soap opera.
(I figured I could probably freelance it and my boss could eat dog turds. Or maybe
he'd like a box of goanna droppings to share with the boys. )
Cherie confided that Martin had had a platonic with no-sexual-undertone-on-either3

Open Season on Butterflies
side-that-he-was-aware-of relationship with one of the long legged posh party supporters that
helped with difficult speeches, cricked necks and tired shoulders. Platonic turned into some
comforting sessions amongst the debris of take-out curry and vin ordinance. Catherine
someone.
She didn't recall the name as Marina was sobbing at the time.
Apparently, Miss Long-legged-posh-knickers took extended leave and the child was
adopted. She had her reputation to consider and her plans to marry a Lord.
That's Martin's idea of finally coming clean after the story broke.
It wasn't as much as I hoped. I just had to winkle out Catherine's surname; find her
and give her the same sort of spiel. Tell her she shouldn't be made to feel the bad girl in
all this.
Ace.
Cherie and I had a few daiquiris and both agreed that aubergine, plum and tangerine
were as out as yesterday's fondue set and Izzy's inspiring Spring Collection comprising
delicate floaty fabrics clouded in soft pastel floral prints teamed with his lady-bird encrusted
hats, were most definitely in.
At home I grabbed my notebook to begin deciphering the gibberish that I had
scribbled, and tuned into the TV news.
Martin Keeling was being cosily interviewed in his office by a sympathetic and
obviously smitten woman television personality. All silky legs, stilettos and flicking hair.
It appears that after a DNA sample from himself and Chloe had been scrutinised – he
was not her father. Keeling said how disappointed he and his family felt at having gained then
lost such a delightful child. He had spoken to Lady Catherine and had the utmost admiration
for her. It was an unfortunate mistake and they could now put the whole episode firmly behind
them. Chloe had formed a loving bond with her birth mother and she simply adores her new
pony. This, he said, had brought his family even closer together. He would not be resigning
from the Conservative party and he had the continuing full support of all his colleagues and
leader.
I flicked off the TV and sent the remote flying across the room.
Opening a bottle of sauvignon blanc, I carefully filled a goblet to the brim; then
started writing two articles. Izzy Missoni and his cunning introduction of the unique Japanese
4

Open Season on Butterflies
geisha obi as his latest in belts – and the Moon opposes Uranus.
My horoscope indicates changes are afoot in the house of career.

5


