Last night I read until 2:00 in the morning. I guess I’d wouldn’t have chosen to
quit just then, but my eyes felt gummy and itchy like they were tacked together. They felt
hot even, so I thought I’d lay my head back and rest a while, and then get on and finish
that chapter, but of course I didn’t. My neck woke me. I had this stiff achy pain on the
side of my neck that ran all the way up to my jaw where my head had fallen over. My
fingers were numb where I’d clung to the book, but it had still slipped sideways out of
my fingers. I couldn’t feel a thing in my little finger, and the other four were kind of
numbish. I felt foolish, but this staying up reading late was something that I’d never have
allowed myself before, and I felt duty bound to try it. Of course, I’d never had a lamp on
my side of the bed before; that is until now.
The light had always been on Daniel’s side. He said he’d needed it there, so he
could see the dials on the clock. I really couldn’t understand the sense of that since the
numbers were all lit up in a greenish poison-colored glow. I’d asked about that once in
early marriage, but just that one time. He looked at me like he couldn’t believe what he
was hearing. The disgusted look on his face was way out of proportion to what I thought
I’d said. He shook his head a time or two long blond hair slipping down over his
forehead. Maybe he hadn’t really heard what I was saying. I hadn’t thought of that before
now. He just patted me on the shoulder, and said that if I really wanted to read, I could
just go out to the den and read.
It wasn’t really a den. It was the second bedroom in our little rental house. I
wanted to keep it as a bedroom for when we had company, and maybe later for a nursery
for when children came. We hardly ever had company, and the children never came, so

1

we kept it a den. I never did like to read in there, though. The sofa was lumpy and hurt
my back. The chair that matched was stiff and straight up, so I could never just slouch
down and really enjoy my book. His mother had given both to us, so we kept them long
after we should have gotten rid of them. I told Daniel that I had that little bit of money
that I had left over from my parents’ will, and I knew that at least I could get new
furniture or good used furniture, but no, he refused. It was good enough. I even
mentioned that we could get another bedside table and lamp, but he said that would just
ensure I would be keeping him awake half the night.
Even now that we are in a nice big house, I still usually go out and read at the
kitchen table. It is quiet in there, and the light is all soft filtered light put in by a fancy
kitchen designer. I can still listen to the sounds of the refrigerator humming and an oldfashioned clock ticking, so it is company of sorts. I read here most nights until I get
almost too sleepy to make it back to bed. I usually drink a glass of tea or get a snack. It is
handy for that. That jogs me awake a little, so I can make it back to the bedroom and
wash my face and put on my nightgown. Sometimes, I think how nice it would be if I
could just scoot down in the bed and turn off the light when I got too tired to read. Now, I
have that chance.
I wonder, but don’t really care all that much, where Daniel is. His note said that
he was destined for a life with Caroline. So, I imagine them to be on the beach, at the
mountains, touring somewhere. Somewhere that is a lot more fun than just right here. I
pop a dark brew K-cup in my Keurig hoping that a strong cup of coffee will smooth out
the soreness from my neck and the stiffness from sleeping all crooked.

2

*

*

*

The first time I met Caroline was at Daniel’s office Christmas party, I really liked
her. She was a large beautiful blonde with a sweet friendly smile. I thought she would be
someone that I would really like for a friend. I don’t make friends easily; I just don’t
seem to be able to put myself out there to make an impression or whatever. Caroline
seemed interested in me, though, what I had to say, and my opinions about several topics
that came up in conversation. Of course, I had had a glass or two of wine, so maybe I
wasn’t as quiet as I normally was.
When we got home, I asked Daniel about her. He didn’t answer my questions in
much detail. He didn’t act impressed with her. Said that she was new, had good
credentials, but thought she knew more than anyone else. He said, “You know how it is
with those single women who try to do a man’s job. Ballsy bitch.” I was a little confused
because at the party it seemed that we always managed to be somewhere in her periphery.
Oh well, I thought. I just went on upstairs to get ready for bed, and Daniel turned on the
tv and settled in to watch something on Fox news.
I was more than surprised when Caroline called a couple of days later. She was
having a brunch for some women that she had met since she had moved here, and she
thought that would give everyone a chance to get better acquainted and not let all the
holiday madness totally take over. I really didn’t want to go. I don’t like to socialize with
people I don’t know. It was more fun than I thought. The food was good, the ladies were
nice, and I felt comfortable.
Caroline and I had a lot in common. We both grew up as only children of strict
older parents. We both grew up in small towns where we tried to fit in with the other kids

3

but didn’t socialize or date much. The only reason that I was included in social events at
all was that my dad was the major employer in our town, so people thought they had to
be nice. We were both good students but tried not to make a big deal out of it, so as not to
call attention to ourselves. I really couldn’t believe that Caroline hadn’t been a popular
cheerleader or group leader, but she said that she wasn’t.
We didn’t get together much during our friendship. Mostly on weekends. Daniel
had a group that he played golf with on weekends, so I was used to being alone without
him. Caroline and I went shopping, had lunch, and saw a play or two. She was so much
fun. I didn’t realize that I had forgotten how to have fun. Maybe I never had had much. I
even laughed. The rusty unused sound of it almost scared me.
Caroline took me to her hair stylist. My thick frizzy hair was reshaped into
something nice that I could manage myself. My short stubby nails were shaped and
polished. I felt great. Daniel didn’t seem to notice. Caroline just smiled and shook her
head and said, “Oh he is such a guy.”
Starting right around Valentine’s Day, Daniel had to spend more and more time at
work. He usually came home late at least two or three nights a week. When he came
home, he had a strong distinct bourbon smell. I wondered a time or two how much work
was happening. I almost asked Caroline about that, but then I hated to because I knew
that she would be there with him, for work, I thought. I didn’t want to be one of those
nagging prying wives who felt the need to always be checking on their husbands.
I took my coffee and sat at the kitchen table. Did I need to maybe eat something?
Was I losing weight? Maybe I could fix a piece of toast or an English muffin. Sure, an
English muffin would really be nice. A nice healthy wheat one.

4

Just as the toaster popped, the phone rang. We even still had a landline.
“Well, it’s done.” Caroline’s voice didn’t sound shocked or sad or anything.
Actually, pretty emotionless.
“Where were you?” All I could think to ask.
“I know. A week was longer than you expected, right?
“Well, yes.” Did I dare to ask questions? “Was it the beach or where?”
“No, it was my parents old place on the lake. Let’s say he enjoyed himself until he
didn’t, and you little miss worrywart don’t need to know more.”
“When are you coming home?”
“Oh, I’ll be there late. You don’t have to wait up for me.”
I did though, of course. I had gotten this great mystery from the library that I was
dying to read. I was just into an absorbing exciting part, when I heard her punching in the
numbers for the keyless entry. Would she get the code wrong? Would the alarm go off?
But no, here she came bounding up the stairs like a young puppy. She grabbed me in her
big strong arms for a very special deep kiss.
“Well, were you waiting up for me or just deep into your book?”
“Why, of course its because I’m waiting up for you.” I hated lying, but it was
partially true.
“Well, I am worn out. I’m going to get out of these clothes, take a quick shower,
and get into some comfy pajamas.” She turned to look at me and gently squeezed my
shoulder. “Tomorrow night, though Missy, I would really like to sleep on that side of the
bed. I want to have the lamp on my side. I need to be able to check out the dials on the
clock.”

5

6


