Muhammad stepped atop the foam with bare feet. He felt the padding folding under his heels. He
smiled and blew a peace sign to his fans and in response, they amplified their voices. At this time, the
referee came forward with brand new, shiny four-ounce gloves. Williams received the gloves and
shoved them onto Muhammad’s hands, as Gabriel rubbed vaseline on his forehead and cheeks.
Muhammad climbed the ice-cold, steel steps. The referee nodded his head to signify he accepted
Muhammad as a combatant.
“After losing his fight against the Russian Concussion by technical knockout and winning his
second by technical knockout, the current AGC heavy-weight champion is here to go against his
fiercest opponent in a battle which determines the champion. From Denver Colorado and fighting out
of the blue corner, the unorthodox fighter, Muhammad Hussein.” Grant’s voice was overcome with an
explosion of roars so loud, the people screaming had to stop smashing their hands together and cover
their ears.
The ring girl’s breasts jiggled in a pink bikini top and her hips bounced as she walked toward
Muhammad. Her blonde hair reached her tiny, bronze waist. From this short distance, Muhammad had
no choice but to give his attention to this model. Her blue eyes contrasted cherry-red lips. However,
this rat bastard once again thought of no lust. He only pondered the composition of feminine beauty;
God bequeathed to the women of Earth. Dude’s such a queer.
Once this blonde cock socket walked by him, Muhammad watched the crisscrossing spot lights
and scanned the lit crowd beyond the vinyl, chain-linked fence. Some fans in the light sat appearing
pensive. One older pot-bellied Texan, in a cowboy hat, sat with arms folded, viewing the ticking clock.
Above his seat, a middle-aged woman couldn’t keep her eyes off the model strutting around the
hexagon. Other people were leaning on the edge of their seats, either tickling their wrist-phone screens
or scratching the arm of their smart glasses. One tatted-up Englishman in a suit leaned forward and
vomited hard liquor onto the arena floor. Fans pointed out this obnoxious drunk to their giggling
friends. Unintentionally, Muhammad’s eyes landed on a chubby pale-skinned brunette sitting a few
rows in front of this party animal. She realized Muhammad was briefly looking in her direction. She
batted her big eyes, toasted him with her plastic cup and blew a kiss. While this heavy set lady amused
her self, Muhammad again ventured his gaze elsewhere. Finally, his thoughts were seized by the forty
foot polyester flag with stripes of red and white and a white crescent with a white star over a blue
background in the shape of an eagle, suspended from a truss. The crescent moon and star comforted
him. I’m an American, he thought. He faced east with his thumbs up and fists outwards. Muhammad

kneeled down on the canvas, atop a Harley Davidson decal. Muhammad asked God to deliver Boris’
weaknesses to him and stood up, the way his father showed him as a child. Muhammad felt his Dad’s
presence inside the hexagon, as he repeated his prayer.
“Please welcome. Boris ‘The Russian Concussion’ Babikov!” Grant screamed, as Boris came
running down the opposing aisle, shadow boxing the air. Ivan and his crew were in lockstep, as he
trucked through flailing arms.
“Boris has twelve wins with AGC, all knock outs except one technical knock out and a single
loss. Hailing from Kazan Russia. Feared in his country for being born at the exact moment when a
meteorite struck Russia, way back in 2013. He weighs in at two-hundred and thirty-four pounds and is
six foot, five inches tall. Fighting out of the red corner, please welcome, Boris ‘The Russian
Concussion’ Babikov.” A mixture of applauds and boos rolled through the stadium.
“I hope all of you know, who are watching this live, Muhammad and Boris’ fight tonight, here, at
the MGM Arena is going to be a privilege to watch! I’m not alone in calling this one of the most highly
anticipated fights of the 21st century. Especially considering for the first time VIP subscribers can see
the fighters’ view, thanks to the people at Genius, who developed Oculus the first camera smart lens.”
Boris entered the hexagon. He shook the fence and bared his teeth at the press. The press flashed their
teeth back in fear, as they looked upon Boris, who was already sweating.
“Now for everyone’s enjoyment. Muhammad will sing the national anthem.” The masses howled
and clapped. Muhammad opened his mouth and bellowed out the words.
“Oh say can you see by the dawn’s early light, what so proudly we hailed at the twilight’s last
gleaming, whose broad stripes and bright crescent with a star through the perilous struggle against the
unfaithful in our God-worshipping nation.” Muhammad stood still, as he intoned into the microphone.
His perfect key and intensity in pronouncing with pride every word, brought a love for The United
States out in every citizen, except for one man. Muhammad was distracted, slightly, by this Russian.
Boris ice-grilled Muhammad and made the motion of snapping a neck, as the poem was heard.
Mixed-martial artist fans stood on their feet until the song ended. Once they settled their clapping
hands by their sides, the referee motioned for the fighters to come together. Thousands of thuds from
asses hitting seats echoed through the arena. Muhammad and Boris met at the hexagon’s center. The
two men made eye contact.
“Welcome to the hexagon. I’m the official referee. Nate Donaldson.” Neither blinked, as they
listened. Even, Ivan and Boris’ second, Dimitri, remained bug-eyed. Williams and Gabriel were
standing behind Muhammad, listening to Nate’s words. Muhammad was too, but he was thinking about

how he would crack the arm of a man who dared tattoo on his skin an American flag being torn by a
bear.
“I want a clean fight. When I say break, you break. You both agreed to the rules of the State of
Nevada earlier. Follow them. You will have five, five-minute rounds. Do you understand?” a Russian
translator was there for Boris, but Boris understood what was happening and enunciated, “Da,” at the
right moment.
“Do you?” Muhammad nodded his head.
“Yeah.”
The clock counted down to ten seconds. The whistle sounded off and Daniel shouted from
outside the cage, “Let’s go brother! Yeah!” Daniel pounded his fist into his palm. The stadium erupted
with a deafening roar and camera flashes glinted across the ocean of humans. Three judges scooted
forward in their seats. Muhammad, Boris, and Nate remained, as the rest exited the hexagon through
the two gates. The gate doors closed and the clock’s seconds were down to the final three. Two
seconds. One second. Muhammad heard the bell ring and it was show time.
I would let that phony Grant narrate the fight for you, after all he did undergo a backdoor surgery
for his voice, but since I’m better at it, here goes; Muhammad and Boris charge the center.

Muhammad plants and jabs first. Boris keeps his distance. Boris replies with a combination of
elbows and fists. A big straight right is sent, but Muhammad blocks it with his bicep held tight to his
head. Boris pressures Muhammad, as Muhammad retreats to the fence. The Russian Concussion now
controls the hexagon. Suddenly, Muhammad rolls off the fence and lifts his body off the mat and whips
a right knee into his opponent’s jaw. Muhammad feels the connection and somewhere in his mind;
smiles, because of Boris experiencing pain. But Boris keeps both feet on the canvas. So, Muhammad
fires off an elbow, another elbow, and an uppercut. The uppercut is lightning fast, as is expected from
the fastest man and where it strikes Boris, it vibrates his skull like a tuning fork. Boris refuses to
explore the canvas with his back. The whistle blows. The current champion and The Russian
Concussion spear each other at the same second. They grab hands. Both their heels anchor into the
canvas. The timekeeper hammers the bell. However, the two fighters’ wrists remain locked. The
timekeeper bangs on the instrument’s rim again and again, until he resembles Animal the Muppet on
the drum. Muhammad’s ten fingers continue to interlock with Boris’ ten fingers. Boris is struggling to
snap the young man’s wrists. Nate runs up and divides Muhammad from Boris.

“Both of you this is a warning. When that bell goes off you go to your corners. Believe me I will
foul you both.” The sweaty Champion returns without a word to his corner and sits on the stool Gabriel
delivers.
“What were you doing? You wanna lose a point?” Williams shouts. From across the hexagon
Boris is shouting in English, “I kill you.” Williams crushes the water bottle into Muhammad’s mouth.
Gabriel ices Muhammad’s bruises.
“Ignore that fool. Other than that, that was a good start Champ. That was your round. Just like the
next is. We’ll take it one at a time,” Williams says. Gabriel keeps the ice bag on Muhammad’s temple.
“You kept control of his distance. But, he’s got reach, so, remember you gotta watch his
footwork too. Don’t give him the chance again to hit you with those clubs of his.” Muhammad moves
his head up and down, as Williams shares pointers.
“He’s taken your combinations. You know he’s strong. Can you tell?” Muhammad nods.
Meanwhile, Boris is spitting vitriol toward Muhammad in Russian and butchered English.
“Dry that mess up,” Williams shouts to Gabriel, who runs a towel over Muhammad. The whistle
sounds. Williams lifts the stool and Gabriel grabs his tools.
The bell rings, the gate closes, and Boris attempts to beat Muhammad to the middle. The Russian
Concussion shoots on Muhammad. Muhammad flings his feet back and pushes down on Boris’ spine.
The Russian Concussion is planted in the ground, like a seed. Muhammad passes guard, raining
punishing punches and stinging elbows, but Boris’ strength is too great and he peels away to regain his
footing on the mat. A raspberry appears on Boris’ eyebrow ridge. Muhammad taking no for an answer
races up and strikes Boris’ eye socket with a Superman fist. Muhammad breaks through Boris’
forearms with another flying knee, forcing Boris backwards with this thunderous hit. Muhammad curls
his fingers around The Russian Concussion’s nape and using his neck as a fulcrum, flies his knee up
again and this time crashes it into Boris’ nose. The impact splits Boris’ septum, like a Cedar log under
a new axe. Blood, the stuff people enjoy seeing, pours down The Russian Concussion’s mouth and
chin. Yet, Boris remains vertical. A rumble shakes the entire hexagon. Boris can’t hear the crowd and
wipes blood onto his hairy, sweaty forearm. He looks at his blood. Seeing his blood naturally makes
him combust. He licks his upper lip and dilutes the blood in his mouth by swallowing it. He tastes burnt
metal and grins. The big, bad Boris lunges forward and starts striking a well defended Muhammad with
elbows and head butts. Muhammad backpedals from the center and crashes his lumbar into the cage.
Boris lifts and dumps the cocksucker. His takedown is successful. Boris suffocates the grappler with
his free hand. A couple minutes pass and the referee orders the two to the center. They pause and reset

themselves. Nate unleashes the two and Boris shoots a salvo of straights, hooks, and elbows to
Muhammad’s upstairs, but every attack misses by a country mile. The timekeeper hits the bell again
and again, as Nate intervenes. He tosses Boris off Muhammad.
“You’re getting docked a point,” Nate shouts at the top of his lungs. He runs over and tells
Muhammad about the penalty. Muhammad returns to the blue corner. He’s breathing in deep like
Makua Rothman, post wipeout. The hexagon’s custodian wipes a white towel into the bright red
puddles. Nate sprints over and informs the three judges Muhammad wins round two. Despite Nate
nearly having a heart attack from Boris’ disobedience, the crowd is thrilled as a leprechaun seeing all
their gold. Nate returns from sharing the scorecard with the commission and asks Williams if
Muhammad was alright.
“You need to keep that Russian under control. He can’t have his, li’l, road-rage bullshit here.”
“We know. He knows. I fouled him and Muhammad has that round.” The whistle blows and
Gabriel leaves the hexagon with Williams.
The third round kicks off with the men charging out like two bulls in their prime. In the fray,
Babikov blocks a bounty of beautiful blows. Muhammad’s creative combinations continue until finally,
it cuts into his opponent’s cranium. Muhammad sniffs The Russian Concussion’s exhaustion in the
acidic-scented air. Boris’ defense is slowly becoming a dark, cold and shallow well and Muhammad
knows it. The ten-second mark sounds off and Muhammad tells himself it is time to crack open Boris’
skull, like a ripened coconut in the hands of a Polynesian. He takes a step closer and hurls his entire
body up in the air, the bell rings throughout the arena as Boris’ nose is again smashed. Boris’ eyes welt
up with tears, like Brannan’s would when a child and his step father pulled into their driveway. The
disgusting maggot’s significant-strikes-absorbed-per-minute rate hits eighty-percent. This time, Boris
stumbles to his corner without incident. Muhammad gallops to his corner, arms in the air, and rests on
the stool. Ice-cold water squirts his face. It washes down his neck and chest and into his trunks.
“You’re wearing him thin. But you need to not focus so much on his nose. He’s gonna expect
you to go for it. He’s expecting you to target it,” Williams shouts. The whistle blows. The bell rings.
“Remember. Move. Stay on your toes.”
The fourth round starts with less fury. Muhammad’s limbs no longer seem weightless, but heavy.
His previous gloves made of foam, now feel like they had been cast with iron. His once nimble feet are
suddenly slow, because of oxygen-poor blood in every muscle fiber. Muhammad toys with Boris, like a
cat with a mouse. The crowd must have this and Muhammad can appreciate their desire.

“Come on!” Muhammad slowly shouts. He fills the bottom of his lungs with air, between words.
“Do something!” The Champion puts his guard down further, by spreading out his arms and
showing his palms. Boris sees this and shoots on Muhammad. In the blink of an eye, the wrestler
pushes him aside and The Russian Concussion can only look up at Muhammad with bewilderment.
How is he so fast? The Russian Concussion asks himself. Muhammad sends a hook and it smashes
Boris’ dome, but not enough to cause a concussion. Boris staggers. The judges mumble to each other
how it is possible for The Russian Concussion to remain conscious.
“Is that all? You’re done?” Muhammad screams. The Champion starts dancing around his foe.
He claps his hands, inches in front of the Russian’s face. Muhammad bitch slaps Boris’ ear. This angers
Boris more than anything, because Muhammad is lowering his competitive spirit. Boris is bitch slapped
again by Muhammad who is now smiling. The fans go bananas. A few more right jabs and slaps are
dealt upon Boris’ body. Shithead forces the weaker-looking Boris against the chain-linked fence. A
nasty left hook, a vicious knee, and a colossal left elbow further destroy Boris and cause the placard to
shake and the pattern of black diamonds to rattle, again and again. The whistle blows. Muhammad
pulls back to re-energize and Boris takes advantage of this moment to regain his footing. So,
Muhammad pauses to admire his handiwork, unimpaired. He closed his opponent’s right eye and
Muhammad expected Boris’ left eye to be swollen shut, soon. However, between those puffy lids is
still an eye with a twinkle. It looks straight at Muhammad and declares to him, ‘I am a man. I am
fearless.’
This defiance to Muhammad’s might makes him furious. How dare he not fall, Muhammad
thinks. How dare he be so stubborn. How dare he be so passionate about not losing. So, the li’l
cocksucker begins to provoke Boris, by tonguing away his mouth piece and saying, “You got it. Come
on. Free shot.” Muhammad criss-crosses his pointer fingers above his jaw.
“Right here. You think you can take me out?”
“Fight,” Nate demands.
“Muhammad let’s go. Four seconds!” Daniel shouts.
“Keep your guard up!” Williams demands.
“Guard yourself. He’s never done this? Keep your hands up,” Gabriel screams. The crowd looks
on with confusion and laughter. How can this barely-standing Russian injure Muhammad? the masses
think. Waves of deafening claps and continuous screams flood the hexagon from every angle.
Muhammad looks at his pathetic opponent.

Chapter5

Muhammad waits for the right moment to strike The Russian Concussion.
“Angelica thinks you can’t please her,” I whisper. Muhammad suddenly stops thinking of
finishing the fight and instead remembers how he couldn’t perform in their moment of passion.
Meanwhile back in the real world, the one-eyed Boris lifts his left toes and inches them forward, rear
foot trailing. He raises his right fist, cocks it back, and snaps it into Muhammad’s jaw, like a wrecking
ball.
To the select few watching the live feed, through Muhammad’s and a quarter of Boris’ lenses,
they didn’t see what happened, because it was quick. Viewers saw a man with a raw, hamburger-patty
face launch his fist deep into Muhammad’s button, right where his pointer fingers were intersecting.
From this bone-cracking impact, Muhammad went airborne. There was the briefest moment of silence,
as the crowd processed Muhammad on his spine. Kids, women, dudes and their brothers stopped being
awed and jumped from their seats in hysteria. Boris darted toward a defenseless Muhammad. Meattenderizing punches pummeled Muhammad. Nate shoved The Russian Concussion away from
Muhammad.
The Russian Concussion paused briefly with his mouth wide-open in surprise. He went pingponging off the six cages in celebration. Ivan burst onto the scene screaming like a pineapple had been
shoved up his rectum. The bell was ringing and Ivan was latched onto Boris, riding him around the
hexagon. Amidst all the chaos, Williams was hoping to wake Muhammad.
“Champ. Can you hear me?” There was no answer. Muhammad had no sense of what was
happening to him.
Finally, Oculus subscribers’ black screens dissolved into a shining ophthalmoscope and a
flashing red circle around a white plus sign. Paul and his two medics, as well as Nate and Williams
were huddled around Muhammad. Regaining consciousness after being knocked out, to you humans, is
like being black-out drunk in an arctic lake. You know nothing of how you got there, where you’re
going, but you know one thing. You should be feeling something, but no. The little maggot quickly
regained his memory by pulling his torso forward. All the men forbid him from trying to stand. Despite

the joules of energy his brain meat absorbed, this little bitch started crying and crying hard.
“Nooo! I’m done. I’m done. Aren’t I?” Muhammad sobbed. Williams patted his shoulder. I’m
gonna hover back from the hexagon and the story for a second for the sake of savoring the flavor. This
is probably my second favorite moment in wrecking his life, in my innocent and humble opinion. The
fact is the more he cries the more his lacerations sting. Knowing a human’s tears cause them additional
physical pain is dope. It’s as close to being a good time as when a funeral progresses into murder.
Some Belfastites know what I’m saying. Anyway, an ensemble of idiots holding brass instruments
formed outside the hexagon.
“Please stand in recognition of the new AGC heavy weight champion of the world, Boris The
Russian Concussion Babikov.” Nate held up The Russian Concussion’s hand. The musicians were
playing the Russian Federation’s national anthem.
“Wide spaces for dreams and for living are opened for us by the coming years. Our loyalty to the
fatherland gives us strength. So it was, so it is, and so it will always be,” the choir sang this verse, as
the golden band was stolen from Brannan and Daniel’s custody. The Russian Concussion’s tongue
rested on his lower lip, as he listened to Sergey Mikhalkov’s lyrics. Dwayne placed it atop Boris’ caveman head, despite Boris rocking back and forth from exhaustion. Ivan held onto Boris and Dimitri
hopped around, waving the Russian flag like a giddy, little kid sugared up on soft drinks. Muhammad
walked away, facing only his feet as they stepped over rose petals layering the canvas.
Muhammad would have walked head first into the door, had not the security guard opened it and
said his name. Muhammad entered and tore off his gloves, unwrapped everything and sat in the folding
chair. His hands held his face in the silence. Suddenly, voices were heard coming into the dressing
room. They are not coming in here, Muhammad said to himself. The door opened and the locker room
quickly filled with Gabriel, Brannan, Daniel, and Williams. Muhammad yelled at them, “Get out!”
Without delay, Muhammad stood and picked up the metal folding chair and swung it toward the white
cinder block wall. But, the object hit Daniel. Daniel’s reaction was to be cool. He raced into the
hallway, followed by his brother and friend.
“What the hell?” Williams asked, standing his ground. Muhammad was sweaty and his chest
inflated and deflated.
“You hit your brother.” Muhammad wrinkled his face.
“What did you do up there?”
“I dunno.” His temper returned and he attacked the free-standing bag. The bag and chain rocked
back and forth, but never tipped, although it almost did with one of his strikes.

“I lost! I lost? Why God?” Dwayne Dwight poked his head in the room. He saw Muhammad
wigging out and shouted, “Wow. Holy shit. Stop Muhammad.” Dwayne jumped in front of
Muhammad. Tony Caito casually entered behind him.
“What’s wrong with you?” Muhammad stopped beating the bag. Dwayne grabbed Muhammad’s
punching bag.
“Get it together. Shit. You shoulda’ done that in the hexagon. What the hell happened? You
throw your fight? People are saying you did. It’s unlike you to taunt. It’s out of character. I’m
wondering if you did goddamn it.”
“What?” Williams asked.
“I said your fighter is being accused of throwing the fight. I saw something odd, plain and
simple. You can’t argue that?”
“My boy did something foolish. He’s not a criminal.”
“Did you let him knock you out? What happened?” Dwayne asked again.
“I dunno what happened.”
“You don’t know what happened? Did he say that he doesn’t know what happened?” Tony asked
Dwayne. Dwayne looked at Tony and rocked his head in agreement.
“Throwing a fight is a serious charge,” Tony said in a slow, monotone voice.
“Don’t listen to them,” Williams said, as he placed his arm over Muhammad’s wet shoulder.
“What a mess. You need to get his story together before the press conference,” Dwayne
demanded.
“This is nonsense. We didn’t fix the fight. He showboated. What’s the big deal? The kid won’t
do it again. Does he look like he’s happy?” Williams puffed his chest.
“That’s not what our intelligence shows.” Muhammad moved away from them and sat on the
couch.
“Hey? Where are you going?” Dwayne asked, clicking together his thumb and middle finger.
“Get Paul to check on him again,” Dwayne said to Tony. Tony left the dressing room in a flash.
“My kid’s upset. He lost his parents and now you’re accusing him of rigging his own title fight.
What the hell is wrong with you man?”
“Tony is verifying things here in a few and he’ll make an announcement,” Dwayne replied.
“What announcement?”
“We’re going to find the truth.” Williams put his hand on his brow ridge, closed his eyes, and
paced.

The door swung open again with Tony entering in front of Paul. Muhammad glanced in the
hallway and saw Daniel standing and looking in at him. The two locked eyes. Daniel raised his hands
and squinted. The door shut behind Paul. Light shined in Muhammad’s eye.
“AGC is taking precautions, before we move forward,” Tony said to Paul.
“Yeah. I can imagine. That was ugly,” Paul replied.
“Hey Champ, I mean Muhammad, can you tell me where you are?”
“Yeah. I’m in the MGM Grand stadium.” Paul put on his latex gloves and began feeling
Muhammad’s jaw for swelling.
“Do you know what year it is?”
“2033.” Paul pulled out a tongue blade.
“That’s correct. Open your mouth.” Muhammad opened his mouth.
“Bite. Can you hold it there?” After a moment, Muhammad answered, “Yeah.”
“How do you feel? You feel sick? You feel like throwing up?” Paul took back the instrument.
“No.”
“I want you to repeat these string of numbers you ready?”
“Yeah.”
“10, 1, 14, 9, 1, 89, 11.” Muhammad repeated them without incident.
“Checks out. You have an iron jaw my friend. I felt his punch from my seat.” Muhammad glared
up at him and asked, “Did it end your career?”
“No.” Paul packed up his bag and walked toward the door.
“Keep an eye on him over the next four hours. Look for erratic behavior.” Williams interrupted,
“More erratic than The Modest Mongoose provoking someone to hit him?”
“Yeah. If you notice anything stranger than that, get him to a hospital.” Paul again turned around
and left the dressing room. Tony followed him and returned with two troopers.
“Serve him,” Tony said to Dwayne. Dwayne handed a scroll to Williams.
“Everything's there to suspend Muhammad's license and to withhold the purse under bond, until
our investigation proves the fight was a clean fight,” Dwayne said.
“You sombitch. You are not withholding his purse. What charges? What evidence? This is
bullshit. You know it.” Dwayne folded his arms and blew smoke from his nostrils.
“Hey. Williams. This is not a conviction. Take a minute to read it.” Tony added with his chest
puffed in Williams’ space, “It is notifying you of an investigation. That’s it. It’s our normal protocol.”
Williams poked his pointer finger in Tony’s chest with each word, “No Tony. Normal protocol is not
pulling this shit.” Tony casually brushed off Williams’ finger and said, “Innocent men don’t worry.”

He stepped even closer to the aggressive man who needed a diaper for that cleft chin of his.
“I got this,” Dwayne said to Tony, backhanding him aside. He pointed his finger in Williams’
face and shouted, “Williams. We are pulling this shit and we can pull it the hard way or you can sign
it!” Williams looked down with squinted eyes and reviewed the electronic paper. Muhammad tapped
Williams’ hands and asked, “May I see it?”
“Here.” Muhammad took possession of the scroll and held it sideways, automatically switching
the content on the screen to portrait view. Muhammad thumbed through the body of the document.
“You will sign it,” Dwayne said.
“I didn’t throw my fight.”
“If you didn't do it, we’ll find out. You must realize, half the planet is accusing you of a crime.”
Muhammad finished reading the language and signed with his fingertip. Williams threw his hands in
the air.
“This is like a scene from a bad movie.”
“No this is real and I’m not getting paid,” Muhammad said. Dwayne snatched the glowing,
paper-thin device back from Muhammad. He turned around and left the room.
“Idiot in the hexagon,” Dwayne mumbled. Tony and the two cops left behind him. Once
everyone was gone, Williams asked, “My goodness Muhammad. What did you do? Come clean with
me now if you did something.”
“I didn't. I was beaten.”
“You don't deserve this. You're a prize fighter. Prize fighters don't arrange matches.” Muhammad
leaned back in the couch with eyes closed, rubbing his temples with his thumb and middle finger.
Williams pat Muhammad on his knee and said, “Tell me. Why did they say they have evidence?”
“I don't know.”
“You feeling OK? Your tongue numb?”
“My neck hurts. My head is bumping.” Williams waved his hand, because he knew beforehand
the answer to his question.
“You really are something else. Shower up. I'll be outside.”
Muhammad stepped out of his sweaty trunks and tapped Distant Thunderstorm mode on the
shower’s glass. He slid under the ceiling faucet. The sound of thunder slowly rolled in and grew louder.
The overhead light flickered, to mimic lightning. Suddenly hot water, mixed with warm puffs of air,
streamed down over his cuts. The stinging on his lips and eyebrow ridge quickly subsided, as steaming
rain bathed his body and sedated his mind.

“Sports news.” The smart glass powered on, which automatically lessened the thundering sound
effects. The glass illuminated with attractive faces, sitting around a mahogany table. A woman and two
men were chatting in Mandarin.
“Language selection. English.”
“And in the world of MMA,” said a man with a box-shaped head.
“Tonight, twenty-year-old Boris The Russian Concussion knocked out twenty-one-year old
Muhammad Hussein at the MGM Grand Casino in Las Vegas, in an event the world is talking about
and will be talking about for days to come. If you are onboard the Orion heading toward Mars, here is
the news of the century. Many are speculating tonight’s fight… was fixed.” The blonde with a fat
diamond on her left hand gasped, as did the bald, bow-tie wearing man.
“Throw the fight? He’d get caught wouldn’t he?” the blonde asked. The bald dude with a bow tie
looked up to his left and answered, “No. It's so easy to leave invisible money trails today. I mean there
are players that dwarf the contract he has with AGC.” The lead anchor, with a Minecraft-shaped head,
added, “It is suspicious. The Nevada Athletic Commission is briefing everyone here in the next half
hour, on the heavy-weight fight. We will be bringing it to you, live. The event will be covered by our
very own Jeremy Schlott.” There was a break in the script, which was being read by the crew. They
were gathering their thoughts over the idea of Muhammad being foul.
“It's definitely the dumbest thing to do in the hexagon, cheating or not cheating,” the bald man in
a bow tie said, as he palmed his fist. The lead anchor replied, “It's a bloodsport.” A clip appeared on the
shower wall of Muhammad outboxing Boris in the hexagon.
“Look at The Russian Concussion here. He looks like Carrie!” the woman said. The
commentators laughed together.
“Muhammad shot himself in the foot, I mean the face,” the lead anchor with his flattop haircut
said. Muhammad watched himself spread his hands fully apart and expose his jaw.
“This is my favorite part.” Muhammad watched himself make an 'X' shape on his jaw.
“Blam! Can you believe he made a target?”
“How stupid can you be?”
“What was he thinking?” the woman asked.
“Let's watch it in slow motion one more time,” the lead anchor said, “Holy shit. His head almost
comes off.”
“De-cap-a-tation!” Muhammad watched himself smashed by The Russian Concussion. The video
editor was replaying the moment of contact, over and over again.
“Hank,” the lead anchorman said to the video engineer with a chuckle. His two co-anchors were

wiping their tears.
“You gotta stop doing that, that's painful to watch. I mean look at how he hits. Look at
Muhammad’s blood!” The three were laughing uncontrollably.
“He’s gonna need to watch this to remember,” the chick said between bursts of hysterics.
Muhammad, witnessed himself on the smart glass being knocked out and to him, it was a combination
of embarrassment, déjà vu, and amnesia.
“The referee kind of let him get hits in.”
“Uhh. Yeah. Look at the referee.” The lead anchor gave a direction to his video engineer.
“Zoom in on Nate Donaldson's face.” Nate's face became big on the smart glass and it showed
him with his hands on his cheeks. The woman and two men were cackling and holding their sides at the
referee’s expression.
“He didn't know what to do. He couldn't believe what just happened.” The woman sportscaster
said, “I don't think Muhammad did either. That's a career ender.” They burst out laughing even more
obnoxiously. The laughs seemed to continue on and on, Muhammad thought.
“Or did he?” the brick-jawed man said.
“Maybe. I could be wrong. Maybe he was thinking about the payoff,” she continued.
“You sure are right Stacey. Let's watch the fighter's face as he wakes up from a haymaker.” The
smart glass zoomed in on Muhammad's face, like he was looking in a vanity mirror.
“Paymaker?” the shiny-scalped man said with a smirk. His coworkers cheeks blushed and they
smiled.
“That’s good Willy. Perhaps it is a paymaker Boris hit the ex-champion with tonight. The press
conference is starting here in about thirty minutes. And I can't wait to hear Muhammad's opinion of the
fight.”
“Hey you wanna know why he made an ‘X’ shape with his fingers?” Willy asked his co-workers.
“Why?
“Make me an ex-champ by pressing here.”
“Oh geez,” the married woman said. Muhammad locked shut his eyelids as rain droplets, coupled
with the darkness, shielded him from reality, for only a moment.
Eventually, he stepped out of the steam shower and wrapped himself in the terrycloth towel and
walked toward his locker. Muhammad opened his white locker and saw his victory attire, earlier laid
out on the rack by Daniel. He unplugged his wrist phone from his OLED shirt and walked to the
mirror. Immediately upon reaching the mirror, he was startled by the reflection of a swollen face.

“My face has never looked like this,” he whispered aloud, while simultaneously examining
intently the cuts and fist marks in his dark flesh.
“Boris. You beat me.” Suddenly, he saw the man in the mirror and how it resembled his dead
mother. The cheek bones, his lips, his whole face was a copy of hers. What can I do? he thought. The
significance of all this shit is phony, he thought to himself, even that man in the mirror. He sighed and
left his Oculus lens connected.
“Open missed messages.” Muhammad saw an image of an envelope, overlaying the real world.
The number twelve above the stack informed him of the number of missed messages. He watched, as
the messages drifted on his screen.

6:10 p.m. 04/16/2033

Muhammad Hussein. This is TCN. The most liked Celebrity
Sousvelliance Contractor. We invite you to live stream your post-victory
evening. As the most sousgenic celebrity and with your platinum status
you would be at will to go where you like, when you like, but Good
News Management Group has some suggestions. You will be given
V.I.P. access, all expenses paid, to every Las Vegas nightclub listed.
After you win your fight, please sign with us and entertain your fans by
broadcasting your lucky night in Las Vegas with TCN. We'll pay you
seventy percent of advertising proceeds of each product or service
endorsement which you voluntarily promote per a six-hour episode
agreement. Any incidental event occurring during transmission, that our
team of resolution experts deems defamatory to you is and will be fully
insured up to your specified dollar amount per your social-mediainsurance agreement. Open the link. And we'll deposit your payment
within twenty-four hours.
He swiped away the offer on his wrist phone and read the next email.

9:00 p.m.

Muhammad Hussein. This is TCN. The most liked Celebrity
Sousvelliance Contractor. Good News Management Group has cancelled
your V.I.P. attendance at every nightclub listed and is closing your
account until further notice.
This too was swiped away from his phone.
“God is great.” His wrist phone rang and simultaneously in the lower right corner of his vision
popped up the photograph of Gabriel, holding his motorcycle helmet.
“Answer.”
“Muhammad.”
“Yeah?”
“How are you doing in there?” There was a pause.
“I'm dressing.”
“Aright. Williams said they want you out here in a few minutes.”
“Is Daniel OK?”
“Yeah. He’s fine. We'll be in the hall waiting.” Gabriel gently said. The call ended and
Muhammad strapped his phone on his wrist, as he strolled back to his locker. There, sitting on the rack,
was his all black shirt. He activated the OLED screen on his shirt by opening the application via his
wrist phone. What media should I add, Muhammad thought. He browsed through video clips showing
his career highlights. However, one option was not of his prior opponents being whupped, but instead it
was a poet's words flashing on and off with gilded filigree animation moving around the background of
the screen. He selected it. The poem uploaded to his shirt.
'Righteousness in its true form is believing in God.'
Muhammad turned down the shirt’s brightness on his wrist phone. He pulled it down his back,
laced up his freshly printed sneaks with a small logo of a right hand and an eye inside it, and left the
locker room. His crew was relaxing.
“It's time,” Williams said, unfolding his arms and running up to him.
“Why’d you throw that at me?” Daniel asked, lunging off the wall and planting his foot on the
ground.
“Yeah about that.”

“You’re gonna apologize.” Gabriel hugged Daniel and said, “Don’t.”
“I don’t get it,” Daniel shouted.
“Now’s not the time to get anything. We gotta put this back together. Humpty Dumpty is in
pieces. And if we’re putting him back together it starts by going up to that press conference,” Williams
shouted at Daniel, “Who cares about the damn chair hitting you?” To Williams, these were his boys.
“Now, it sounds like they're gonna ask you about throwing the fight. Don't say anything about
anything. Arnold told me to keep you quiet.”
The group divided up in the corridor and only Muhammad and Williams were admitted into the
brightly lit press room.
“I’m gettin’ you your crown back. So, stay cool up there. I’ll be here.”
“If it’s my destiny?” Muhammad rhetorically asked, as he hopped up the stage’s steps.
Muhammad grabbed a seat, pulled it out, and gracefully sat at the table of fighters. Budweiser beer
bottles were spread out, like a college dormitory shelf. He saw Deon and J. Cook both sipping beer. He
noticed the one light-heavyweight fighter known for wearing face paint in the hexagon. Boris hit the
stage. The Russian had to be led to his seat by Ivan. The Russian Concussion’s whole body was stiff.
His lips were fat, like he’d participated and won the Kylie Jenner challenge. His eyes were swollen
shut, despite being bled. The poor bastard barely had the energy to turn and glance at Muhammad, not
nearly enough to stand up and demand compensation. What mattered to him was the crown, which
precariously balanced itself on Boris’ caveman skull. Meanwhile, Muhammad received a text message
from Angelica asking him to call. He heard, “Welcome everyone. I’m starting off by saying that, that is
what I call fight night! AGC 410 will not be soon forgotten.” Those in the press instantly responded
with cheering, clapping, howling, and whistling.
“OK ya’ll. Let’s get down to it. We all saw something tonight that I never would of imagined. It's
unbelievable, but in this sport I guess ...” Dwayne chortled.
“It, it’s only believable in this sport. That's what we do here at AGC. We bring the unbelievable
to your screens. Boris The Russian Concussion knocked out Muhammad Hussein.” He emphasized the
words ‘knocked out’ in his announcement.
“The anticipation for this heavyweight championship fight was unparalleled and it didn’t
disappoint. Now we have The Russian Concussion wearing the crown!” Dwayne looked at Boris. He
paused, in the hopes Boris would acknowledge his good fortune.
“Uhhh you there Boris?” Boris was looking around, like a blind man high on LSD. Ivan
mumbled.

“Da. Russia number one!” He raised his meat hooks and slowly shook them, but the man
couldn’t hold them up for long. He dropped them heavily on the table and flashed a grin.
A judgmental voice shouted, “Muhammad tossed that fight.”
“Who is that?”
“Jeremy Schlott. ESPNN,” a petite male with a handsome face and long brown hair said.
“You’re jumping the gun,” Dwayne said. Jeremy flipped his hair from his face.
“It’s a race to find answers. That’s journalism.”
“Very well.” Dwayne crossed his arms.
“I’ve been made aware of that allegation.”
“Excuse me. I’m Erica, from Pop News Talk. We have a John Doe claiming your fighter,
Muhammad Hussein told him to bet on Boris Babikov.” Dwayne squinted at the woman with smart
glasses.
“Muhammad. Would you like to comment?” Muhammad didn’t respond.
“You don’t seem too upset about this charge.”
“Obviously people think what they wanna think. So, why waste my breath in telling you all the
truth.”
“Perfect. Glad you’re cooperating. Look. Erica. There’s a lot of hot air going around about this
fight. Because of this. The commission has an investigation underway as well as an internal AGC
investigation. This means the purse is held in escrow. However, Muhammad has assured me, NAC, and
others this charge is baseless. If that’s the case, we’ll be moving on.” Quickly, there were cameras
clicking, mouths murmuring, and plenty of gasps.
A moment later Tony walked onto stage. He whispered in Dwayne's ear. He walked off and
Dwayne said, “Erica. Please know if it is true, you have an obligation to contact NAC with the identity
of that person.”
“And ESPNN,” Jeremy said, fingering up the smart glasses resting on his nose.
“Buzz off you crumb snatcher. Before I tell everyone about you roofying your intern. Oops. I just
did.” The crowd erupted into laughter. Jeremy was shoved in the back by a cackling man. The onehundred and forty pound schoolboy in a J-crew gray blazer bit his tongue clean off, because defending
himself before the world would add credibility to Erica. Jeremy stood up and raised only his middle
finger to Erica. Erica was so offended she threw her drink at him. The press conference exploded into
disorder.
Muhammad stood and walked past the half-awake contenders and pack of jackal journalist. He
passed Boris. Muhammad paid no attention to the golden crown that rested atop his beat-up eyebrow

ridge. The Russian Concussion was looking off into space, probing wounds with his finger.
Four security officers escorted Muhammad away from the stage.
“Get away.” Williams clotheslined the security.
“Williams. Where is your fighter going? He’s not excused,” Dwayne announced.
“You watched him come up through the ranks. You know him Dwayne. You’re gonna get it
when we show up at a different organization.” He turned back around and walked with Muhammad out
of the room. Dwayne squeezed the lectern’s edges and shouted, “No he can’t. Get back here. Get back
here.”
“How can they suspend my license?”
“Where the hell did they find someone to say you wanted Boris to win? This is a witch hunt,”
Williams said. Daniel, Gabriel, and Brannan watched on their wrist phones Muhammad and his trainer
charge out of the press room. They turned their heads and saw the live broadcast fuse with their
perception. The three left their seats and joined their brother and Williams.
“I don’t know,” Muhammad answered. He was thinking of the people he spoke with in the last
three months. So many interviews.
“Arnold’s gonna get to the bottom of this. He needs to get his ass back to the States.”
“How can they say that in front of a billion people?” Daniel asked.
“View hungry,” Williams answered. Muhammad didn't respond and his team looked at each
other waiting for someone to clear up the moment.
“I'm jobless?” Muhammad said.
“You feeling OK brother?” Daniel was worried Muhammad had traumatic brain injury.
“My career is over.”
“You’re suspended, not fired Muhammad,” Williams said. They returned to the dressing room.
Williams looked at his lit up wrist. It was Tony calling him and demanding they get together and talk.
The call was ex’d out by Williams.
“Shit. Shoot, I mean. I gotta go. Oh. You have to be out in twenty minutes to greet blue ribbon
fans. Daniel make sure he’s there.” Williams looked at Muhammad.
“Your fans care about you at least.” He walked out of the locker room ranting about how he
would be unemployed soon.
Daniel said, “Muhammad what you did is so… not like you. Why’d you lose?”
“I didn't. I dunno. I didn’t think he could hurt me.” Daniel flung his hands in the air and showed
his back to Muhammad. Daniel faced his brother again, “You have all your stuff?”
“My bag.” Daniel grabbed Muhammad's gym bag. Daniel left the dressing room. Muhammad

took a second to capture the site with his Oculus lens, realizing it may never be seen again. The
photograph of the all-white dressing room had been uploaded to Muhammad’s gallery, where it
received no love, except a few hearts and encouraging comments from Daniel, his wife, Gabriel,
Brannan, and Angelica.
Security led the two to the lobby, where the blue ribbon guests had been waiting. Children,
teenagers, and parents stood together waiting for the world-famous fighter. When Muhammad arrived,
they swarmed him. A dozen voices shouted questions to him.
“Why did you lose?”
“Does your mouth hurt?”
“Did you not want to win?”
“How can you not fight?” A lanky, blonde-haired man wearing smart glasses confronted the
crowd, “One at a time. We’ll open the line in two minutes.” The tall blonde man dropped his hands and
faced Muhammad.
“The Modest Mongoose. Good to see you again. You OK?” Nick asked, while shaking hands
with the brothers.
“Daniel,” Nick said.
“Not really,” Muhammad answered.
“Well, my supervisor called and wanted me to let you know. When one of our clients is not first
in their competition we bring them a special gift, to show them their skills and talents are recognized by
us, at Blue Ribbon Entertainment. No matter where they place, they’re always a star.” He smiled and
his blue eyes brightly shined.
“That’s great,” Daniel said.
“Thank you Nick. Is it here?” Muhammad asked.
“No. It’ll be delivered shortly. Let’s start Champ.” Nick clasped palms with Muhammad and ran
up to the podium. A group of Muhammad’s biggest fans stood on the rug, under the vaulted ceiling and
chandelier lights.
“Are the biggest fans of The Modest Mongoose ready to give him a warm welcome?” The crowd
enthusiastically kept their mouths shut and their hands apart, as they collectively pictured the cost of
meeting this tool.
“Here he is, the most amazing fighter, Muhammad Hussein.” Nick hooked his finger between his
neck and shirt collar and pulled, as all the fans rolled their eyes and shuffled their feet.


