The remnants of last night’s storm dribble down the window
pane in a slithering path. Jarred Strauss shifts his weight in
the office chair and focuses on a single rivulet as it drips in
descent. The intensity of his observation leaves everything
beyond the glass an unrecognizable mass. His view is not borne
of concentration, but the opposite – distraction. The attempt to
avoid the inevitable confrontation with his boss is pointless.
It’s an unfinished disagreement that surged into an argument
before a phone call interrupted.
He can hear the receiver click upon returning to its cradle
and the subsequent creak of floorboards behind him. Each step is
measured in a shuffled gait that increases his dread.
“I don’t care! We need to run with it,” Ellis barks. The
man resumes the discussion with a level of conviction undeterred
by his phone conversation or his seventy-eight years.
The two men had been preparing the set-up for the Berkshire
Banner. They focus their efforts every Saturday morning on the
task of sorting through stories and allocating precious space,
fitting in ads, choosing headlines, and editing articles for the
weekly paper that covers Williamstown, Massachusetts and the
mountainous northwest corner of the state every Sunday. Once the

1

Launch of a News Story
decisions are finalized the rest of the day is consumed by
constructing templates for the press.
Jarred swivels in his chair to face Ellis. The reddened
cheeks and scowl that confront him broadcast the rising temper
of the Banner’s owner and editor. He hasn’t seen him this angry
before, yet he feels compelled to press the point and challenge
his superior, the only one above him at the small regional
paper.
“But Ellis,” he appeals, “we’ll look like a check-out
counter tabloid. Is that what your grandfather would’ve done
when he was the editor?”
Jarred stares at Ellis, wary that not making eye contact
would show deference and further tip the scales against him. The
nearly five decades difference in their ages and the distinction
between their titles have already placed him at a disadvantage.
The candor he wields surprises him, especially invoking Ellis’s
grandfather, the legendary founder of The Banner.
Ellis remains still in defiance. His silence sucks life
from the room. Except for the ticking of a stoic grandfather’s
clock that’s been a stalwart sentinel in the office, and the
rapid beat of his heart fueled by fear and adrenaline; Jarred
hears and feels nothing. He feigns confidence by casually
placing his ceramic mug down on the table without his sight
leaving the older man.
2

Launch of a News Story
Jarred nearly misses his mark and the mug balances
unsteadily at the edge of the sturdy table, the same table
that’s sat unmoved, like most of the furniture in the room, for
nearly half a century. Not more than five seconds have passed
without words, but the pause was enough to erode his shallow
resolve and expose his timidity. He surrenders by looking away
from his boss, down past his mug, at the thin, wavy veins of the
oak wood. It’s the first time he’s examined the detailed grain
since he began working at the paper a handful of years ago. The
position became available soon after college graduation. He
returned to his hometown to care for his mom once lung cancer
made her a widow. That seems so long ago at this moment. He
slowly raises his head, like a white flag, and peers at the
wrinkled face of his mentor.
“Don’t bring up my grandfather’s legacy Jarred,” he
grumbles. “That’s a poorly played card. I don’t ever want to
hear that again.”
“Okay. Maybe that was out-of-bounds. I’m sorry.”
Ellis nods his head imperceptibly.
“But Ellis, I still think we can present the story by just
stating that she was killed in the crash without saying exactly
how she died.”
“The public has a right to know,” Ellis counters. The
elderly man’s glare pinches his furry eyebrows together, giving
3

Launch of a News Story
the appearance of a long gray caterpillar resting beneath the
creases of his forehead.
“I get it Ellis. It’s a tragedy, there’s no question about
that. But, with everything else going on, are the grotesque
details necessary for the story? Don’t you think people are
tired of seeing all the gruesome footage from Viet Nam on their
TV screens every night?” He catches his breath before continuing
in exasperation, “Give them a break and spare the particulars!”
Ellis lurches forward. “Listen Jarred, maybe I didn’t go to
some fancy journalism school like you, but I do know that a big
part of a good news story is how it impacts the audience.
Besides, in this small town, people will hear about it sooner or
later anyway.”
“Really,” Jarred scoffs, “you truly think people need to
know that the little girl was killed last night when she was
thrown from the car and spiked on the branch of a pine tree next
to the road, still in her car seat? Is that our responsibility?”
he sputters. “Oh, and I wouldn’t call UMass Amherst a fancy
journalism school either.”
The young reporter turns his back to the editor and looks
through the narrow streaks of water coating the window. A bright
yellow umbrella magnetizes his vision. Everything else in the
view seems blurry and gray. The umbrella shields a woman in her
twenties and a girl of about five. They huddle under the
4

Launch of a News Story
protection as they trudge along the sidewalk in the morning
drizzle. The rain is unforgiving, and so it seems, is his boss.
“That’s right young man! Details matter to a story. I
learned that years ago. Practical experience as an apprentice
right from high school. Now that I think about it, impaled would
be the better descriptor.” Ellis has reached a crescendo, his
voice nearing a scream. “She was launched from the car like a
rocket and impaled on the tree branch.”
Jarred watches the two females leave his sight and wishes
he could vanish as well. He inhales deeply, preferring to tune
out Ellis, while imagining the ability to quit work and pursue
his dream of writing a novel.
Ellis’s heavy, labored breathing is a rude reminder of the
storm inside the room. The shattering of his daydream disposes
of caution and Jarred delivers a vigorous return. He’ll express
himself, and if he loses his job, so be it. Maybe he’ll have
time to write his novel after all.
“Jesus Christ! How about respecting her family’s privacy
and their feelings Ellis?”
“What family? For Chrissakes, her parents were killed in
the crash too. That’s the point, don’t you see?” He slams his
papers on the nearby desk. “And, it’s all because of a drunk
driver!”

5

Launch of a News Story
“Is that it? Just because Sam Chalke said he smelled
alcohol? Bullshit!” Jarred pivots back to his desk, yanks his
notes from the typewriter, crumples them up and tosses them into
the trash can next to his desk. “We don’t know for sure what
caused the crash. Maybe the storm had something to do with it.
The driver of the other car died too, remember? On the way to
the hospital before Sam or anyone could get a word out of him.”
Ellis parries, “But one of the cops found some broken wine
bottles in the guy’s car.”
The men have drawn closer to each other with every
sentence. As the distance between the pair narrows, the
philosophical gap separating them widens. They had been drifting
apart incrementally, debate by debate, for the last couple of
months and the weight of this issue will likely jeopardize their
working relationship. That prospect is not lost on either of
them.
“It’s a little too convenient to push Kirkland’s campaign
pledge to get tough on crime, notably drunk drivers, don’t you
think?”
“That’s a load of crap!” Ellis waves a handful of papers in
a sweeping arc as he responds to his colleague. “Sam told me it
was the worst thing he’s seen in all the time he’s been county
sheriff.”

6

Launch of a News Story
“That’s terrible, but it doesn’t make the actual way she
died any more newsworthy!”
Ellis stands erect like a statue, his passive form
nonetheless oozing aggression. Moving only his lips, he poses a
taunting question in a dry delivery. “How’d you like to be the
unlucky son of a bitch that had to pull her off the branch?”
Jarred imagines the paper’s audience. Except for the people
here in town the population is mostly rural, with houses
sprinkled here and there throughout the region. It’s largely a
middle and lower middle-class area with little transiency and an
increasing median age. Not much changes in Williamstown but the
seasons of the year. The specifics of the issue are not
important, or appropriate, for review at the breakfast table.
Armed with that contention, he fights back with a stinging
salvo, “Ellis, you’re prostituting the paper.”
The older man’s temporal artery is bulging despite his vain
attempt to control the anger brought on by the senseless death
of four people. A fear that his grip at the helm of the paper
was shrinking like his frail, aged body exacerbates his plight.
Perhaps time is gaining on him, but he sees no reason to
acquiesce to his protégé now, especially in the wake of Jarred’s
insolence.
There’s a break in the duel, as the editor again opts to
deflect the reporter’s verbal shots with silence. He lifts a
7

Launch of a News Story
Styrofoam cup to his pursed lips and nonchalantly sips the tepid
black coffee. Finally, he gently places the cup alongside the
pot without taking his eyes from the assistant, reaches inside a
shirt pocket, retrieves a pair of eyeglasses, and sets them atop
his nose. He straightens himself up and calmly reiterates his
position.
“I’ll try to forget you said that Jarred,” he offers. “But
don’t you ever forget this,” he raises his long, crooked index
finger and directs it at his adversary. “No governor has ever
come from this county, and what’s good for Kirkland is good for
the county, and what’s good for the county is good for The
Banner, and,” he hesitates like an experienced, disciplined
marksman patiently reloading, “what’s good for The Banner is
good for you.”
The exchange is halted by unexpected movement behind Ellis.
A little boy, a toddler, suddenly appears in the doorway,
wandering alone in the cramped foyer of the building. Jarred
escapes surrendering to Ellis by motioning to the child.
Before the boy can react, a man old enough to be the tot’s
grandfather, appears from behind the wall separating the
entryway and the main office, scoops him up and hauls him off in
the direction of the news counter.
The unusual sight of a child in the newsroom also distracts
Ellis. Except for the occasional field trip from a local grade
8

Launch of a News Story
school, kids are rarely seen in the room. It’s generally off
limits to even the paper delivery boys. Both men, perhaps to
avoid continuing a skirmish that could lead to unwanted
emotional casualties, walk over and peek around the corner.
The child clings to the stooped figure of his elder
companion, a nondescript man in his mid to late sixties, talking
to Mitch Blennan. Mitch is the jack-of-all trades general
receptionist, head of information, classifieds and the
obituaries, and the only other full-time employee of the paper.
Judging from Mitch’s downcast eyes, he’s not receiving
information for a used car ad or a yard sale. Jarred’s
assumption is bleak; the man’s wife probably passed away.
Neither newspaperman recognizes the visitors. There are
only 8,000 people in the town, including the students of
Williams College, but they haven’t seen the two of them before.
Mitch is a veteran, second only to Ellis in experience at
The Banner. Jarred has often wondered how Mitch can gather the
bits and pieces of someone’s life, no matter how scrambled their
story or the circumstances of their death; and produce an
obituary with coherence and respect.
The boy slowly turns in the direction of Jarred and Ellis
and gazes up at them. His pallid face reveals a weary and somber
expression. Red, swollen eyes offer a contrast in color. A thumb
is tucked into the corner of his mouth. Dried trails of tears
9

Launch of a News Story
stand out against dirty cheeks. Snot trickles from a leaky
nostril. His scruffy brown hair is damp from the rain. The
clothes are askew and mismatched, like they were put on in the
dark or wrestled onto him by someone without experience dressing
a young child.
The man turns away from Mitch, grabs the boy’s tiny hand in
his and lumbers toward the door. He hesitates to courteously nod
his head toward the men as he exits the building.
Mitch exhales an extended, sympathetic sigh. The mysterious
couple and Mitch’s reaction combine to lure both men to the
counter.
“What was that all about?”
“What a shame,” Mitch mumbles as he collects his notes and
heads to his desk.
“His wife?” Jarred asks.
Mitch stops and replies with a barely noticeable sway of
his head side to side.
“Death is never easy on anyone,” Ellis adds.
“No, I suppose not,” Mitch responds. “And it’s never fair
either, especially for that little guy.” Mitch drops his
notebook on the desk, plunks himself in his chair, and looks up
blankly at his colleagues. “Not when a drunk driver kills both
your parents and your twin sister.”

10

Launch of a News Story
Mitch breaks the ensuing silence by informing his stunned
colleagues that the boy was spared when he had to stay with his
grandparents last night because of his wheezing and coughing. He
twists in the direction of his typewriter as soon as the last
word passes his lips and before either of his co-workers can
spot his watery eyes.
There’s no need to look at Ellis. Jarred accepts defeat,
rightly sensing the man he was just arguing with about the
specifics of the tragedy is sporting an, I told you so,
expression. Nothing more needs to be said. The victor departs
without further words as a silent exclamation point to the
issue’s resolution.
The next morning, The Berkshire Banner will announce the
arrival of April 16, 1972 with a headline of the dreadful
accident that claimed the lives of three innocent local people,
including a little girl who was catapulted from the car and
skewered by a tree branch. Beneath the photograph of the gnarled
metal taken by a free-lancer at the paper, are two smaller
pictures, one of the fourth victim, the alleged, out-of-town
drunk-driver being carted away by an ambulance crew; the other
of a tiny boy standing alone in the glow of a lamp on the raindraped porch of his grandparent’s home. Despite the dim lighting
one can easily detect a haunting expression of vulnerability and
distress.
11

Launch of a News Story
The canned feed from the Associated Press, a prepared
“background” story of the early morning blastoff of Apollo 16 on
a manned mission to the moon, was not viewed as important as the
deadly collision. It was relegated to appear beneath the fold of
the front page of the paper. Every other story in the paper,
from the pictures of the auxiliary rummage sale at the local
firehouse and the promotion of the upcoming high school musical,
to the feel-good article of the 60th wedding anniversary of a
joyous Williamstown couple, was squeezed in print space and
swallowed up by the emotions of the depressing report of the
tragic crash that launched a little girl to her death, and the
hopeful launch of the spacecraft.

12


