I might argue that there is a bit of a killer in all of
us, but even if true, that doesn’t explain what happened.
And I don’t buy the Dr. Jeckal—Mr. Hyde thing. So, if
you have a few minutes, I’ll to tell you how I remember
what happened, and you can decide how to vote. It’s
still pretty vivid after all these years.
No . . . I didn’t know him personally back then . . .
uh huh . . . but I was an officer . . . Just listen, and that
will be explained.
Imagine a small post in the Delta; a couple hundred
men, wood buildings, wood sidewalks, barbed wire and
cyclone, guard towers. We were in a relatively calm
spot in the war; that’s why they put the hospital there.
So, that morning, they cleared the hooch before we
arrived, brought in a table and chairs for me and
Captain Nghia – my Vietnamese counterpart – and
another table for the prosecutor. They set a bench
against the wall for the defense and a chair in the

middle of the room for the witness; all were military
gray metal, straight backed and uncomfortable.
Otherwise the hooch was empty. The top half was left
open to the air, typical in the Delta, with just thin
mosquito netting protecting us from the elements. A fan
whirled above, slightly off cantor and making this tictic-tic sound. It’s funny what you remember—that
damned fan and the Hueys landing with Med-Evac.
Oh yeah, Two MPs guarded the door.
Anyway, Darren Sweet and his interrogation
partner, Ginh Binh Toa, were sitting on the bench
against the wall, hunched over with their heads down.
Their defense lawyers – in the military we call them
staff judge advocates – were thumbing through their
files.
Understand I’m completely out of my comfort zone
here. A pharmacist shouldn’t be ordered to do this sort
of thing, you know, to preside over a judicial hearing.
Sit in judgment.
How’d I get involved? Well, the protocol in a
combat zone requires that before taking a soldier from
his unit, and remanding him over for a full court
martial, you need a preliminary hearing. It’s manned by
officers from his Brigade. Colonel Bright assigned me,
of all people, to the job.
I remember complaining. “Colonel sir, I’ve got no
experience at this.”

“Don’t worry about it, Major,” he said. Then he
handed me a copy of the Military Code of Justice, and
he tells me, “Just read up on preliminary hearings.”
The manual was dog-eared at that section. Needless
to say, I studied it before lights out that night.
“What if the lawyers make objections?” I asked him.
“They won’t,” he says. “Hearsay is admissible. Just
get a skeleton of the facts for your report.”
He tells me that my job is to determine if there is
probable cause to bind Sweet over for a trial. That’s it.
We both knew there was little doubt about that; the
sergeant couldn’t deny he was present. He should’ve
stopped it. My co-judge, the ARVN Captain Nghia,
would handle Sweet’s co-defendant. That’s all the
instructions I had.
Now, to put this in context, you need to appreciate
the Third Brigade compound is ninety clicks south of
Saigon, smack in the middle of rice fields and adjacent
to a village called Tan An. The 9th Division built a field
hospital there, where I was working, to fulfill the
Army’s promise to treat our wounded within twenty
five minutes of being hit anywhere in the Delta. Most
of the dead and wounded were brought in by the same
UH-1 Hueys that dropped them at their LZ. You hear
rotors phaping over the compound around the clock.
I don’t claim to be a soldier. But I was good at
dispensing painkillers and manning drip lines during

emergency surgeries, which happened all the fucking
time. Otherwise I made myself useful at the hospital.
That’s all, except for dispensing meds. Since nothing
was going on at the hospital and the Colonel needed his
combat officers in the field, he chose me for the court
martial.
So, let’s go back to the hooch. As soon as I took my
place behind the judge’s table, the prosecutor walks
over. His name, if I recall, is Captain Blevins, this tall
crew cut SJA from Saigon. He grimaced, pinched his
nose, and asked for a few minutes more to review
reports. He went back to reading and looking at the
photographs, all the time shaking his head as if
disgusted. I’d read the same material so I knew why
he’d reacted like that.
So, I’m fumbling around, nervous as hell, taking
sheets of paper from my right and placing them on my
left, trying to look officious. My co-judge, Captain Qui
Nghia, took his seat to and cleared his throat. So I turn
toward him.
“Ginh no need lawyer, all ri here.” Nghia says, and
taps on the stack of documents compiled by S-2.
“The Colonel said you agreed to the American
procedure,” I say. Jesus, I’m thinking, has he already
made up his mind?
“No lawyer nessursary,” he says. “He guilty.”
Meaning his guy, Ginh Toa.

Admittedly, Nghia’s job was tougher than mine.
Vietnamese judgment was summary. The Captain’s
decision, unlike mine, was final and could result in
Ginh being marched in front of a firing squad. But
Nghia had been in that chair before and seemed
comfortable with the assignment.
“All ri her,” Nghia frowns and taps the reports hard
for emphasis.
All of these guys, these Republic of Vietnam
officers, are stern faced and without a sense of humor.
Which I suppose was their way of bolstering their
presence against the taller Americans. This guy, Nghia,
is no more than one hundred twenty pounds, all sinew
and tendon under thin bronze skin. His fatigues are
pressed and creased and his embroidered rank and unit
insignias ironed to a shiny finish. Like a damned
Pretorian guard, he’s straight backed, and a study in
decorum.
That morning, like the prosecutor, disgust was
written across his face. He impatiently tapped the pile
of photographs, nodding at them, as if that’s all he
needed to know.
It was a gruesome. In my reading the night before, I
turned to the autopsy first. The victim – I can’t
remember her name right now – was a woman. That in
itself was a first. She was small even for a Vietnamese,
about 45 kilos. The medical examiner, who I knew

personally, Dr. Jessop, guessed she was about thirty
five years old. Short black hair, small boned, and to the
surprise of everyone, four months pregnant. No
mention was ever made of whether she was pretty or
plain – a fact of no consequence to the deceased – and
frankly, I still don’t know, because the photos of the
body featured her belly and pelvis.
But she was the NVA commander. According to the
other two commies they captured, she was the cadre
officer who gave the orders. The shoulder epaulettes on
her fatigue shirt carried two gold stars with two bars,
indicating the rank of major. She was the political
officer and tactical officer rolled into one. That part is
indisputable.
The key witness was corporal Kowalski, the MP
assigned to assist and provide muscle during
interrogations. He didn’t see it happen, but he heard it
according to the report. His testimony would be crucial,
so I intended to call him to testify first. We’d see how it
went.
You need to know that the charges against Sweet
were stated in the alternative: Murder, or Manslaughter
as an accessory to her death. Something like that. I
don’t recall the specifics and wouldn’t understand
anyway; I’m no lawyer. Before my tour, I worked for
Walgreen’s in the back of the store, just like I do today,
filling prescriptions. But what I clearly remember is

this: if guilty, the first count would result in a life
sentence in Leavenworth. The second, when occurring
under the pressure of a combat zone, just a few years of
confinement.
What was uncontroverted was that the woman was
brought into the interrogation room healthy and on her
own two feet. And we know, she didn’t survive the
ordeal. So, either Sweet or Toa killed her, or both.
It was all in the photographs. But who did what?
Which one of the two held the instrument of torture?
And did the other try to stop it? Those were the real
questions. So, the Colonel’s description of my job as
perfunctory wasn’t really accurate; it wasn’t that
simple. Sweet was facing either a few years to think
about his crime while he planned the rest of his life, or
living that life in prison. That’s what was at stake. For
the gook, Ginh Toa, the decision could be terminal.
It seemed pertinent, while the lawyers were looking
at their files, to review what I knew about these guys,
Sweet and Ginh. You know, like their temper, the sort
of thing relevant to predisposition. So I shuffled
through the paperwork again.
Sergeant Darren Sweet’s military record was unexemplary. Originally an inductee, he tested well and
was sent to the Defense Language Institute in Monterey
to learn Vietnamese. Apparently he graduated in the top
of his class, was shipped directly to the 6th

Psychological Operations Group in Saigon, assigned to
S-2, and became an interrogator. That would keep him
off the battle line.
Ginh, on the other hand, was a bit of a mystery. He
was raised in a Catholic orphanage in some highland
province. He enlisted, earned his rank in the field, and
was wounded twice, the last by a mortar round that tore
off his right kneecap, leaving him stiff legged. Since he
was physically limited, and knew a little English, he
was sent to S-2, and joined Sweet on the evening
interrogation team.
Their job included questioning enemy deserters at
the Chiew Hoi center just outside Tan An, easy duty
chatting with former VC who wanted to help as the
price of repatriation. After engagements, when the
Brigade took prisoners, they’d do their real work,
interrogating North Vietnamese regulars who were
captured.
The pre-hearing statements of Sweets friends, who
were bunk mates and drinking buddies, describe Sweet
as an easy going guy who was empathetic with
repatriated prisoners. He made friends with locals and
spent a lot of time off base in their homes or at
restaurants in Tan An, schmoozing and practicing the
language.
So, I’m thinking there is nothing remarkable about
this guy. Apparently Sweet wasn’t interested in ladies

for hire, at least according to his friends. But he did
drink too much and get all maudlin about the girl back
home. That kind of crap. Darren Sweet didn’t want to
be in Nam – few of us did – and he talked a lot about
returning home to marry the girl, and join his father in
the furniture business. A Sinclair Lewis character.
Ginh, on the other hand, was apparently a hot head.
The MP Kowalski described him as mercurial, shouting
at prisoners from inches away, actually spitting in their
faces, or slapping them around. The guard personally
witnessed, on two occasions, Sweet pull Ginh off
prisoners as he pummeled them with his boney little
fists.
Even I knew that the interrogators were encouraged
to get to the point quickly. I helped patch-up a few their
subjects. It sounds a little extreme, but they were not
supposed to break bones. And we’re talking about
enemy taken in battle, while the fighting was still going
on. They’re brought in by Hueys to extract information
while it still counted. So a little softening up was
required, you know . . .
The problem was that Ginh apparently took it to
another level. Maybe he enjoyed it. There were injuries
recorded. One gook had his trachea crushed. Another
was beaten so severely his spleen burst.
But they knew better than to go too far. The Geneva
Accords and all that crap . . . and they could be

punished. So after being reprimanded by the S-2,
according to Kowalski, who wasn’t the brightest bulb in
the box, they stayed away from the orbit of the eye, the
organs, the teeth . . . you know. Well placed body blows
mostly. And threatening. Pistol between the eyes while
the hammer was pulled back. But no real harm.
Oh, another detail. The policy was that the common
NVA or VC grunt was in Ginh Toa’s bailiwick, while
the cadre and officers were Sweet’s responsibility.
Which confused things, you know . . . for us. Ginh was
the loose cannon, but this victim, being an officer, was
Sweet’s job to interrogate. So how’d Ginh get his hands
on her?
So, that’s the background. Anyway, with this in
mind from the written reports, I called the hearing to
order.
The crew-cut prosecutor, Blevins, stood like an
upright worm, smiled condescendingly at me, then
recited the charges and summarized the evidence. Until
that minute I hadn’t gotten a good look at the
defendants, but when the prosecutor spoke they raised
their chins and I think I got a pretty good read on them.
You know how it is when you first meet someone.
They’ve done studies. We assess a person’s character,
his personality, within something like eight seconds
from first seeing them. Hours later, days later, after
getting to know them, and guess what? Our first

assessment sticks. We haven’t changed our opinion. So,
anyhow, I looked them over.
Darren Sweet was blond, on the tallish side, maybe
six one or two. Medium build. He had a good size waist
but was trim; the kind of bone structure that would
carry more weight as the man aged. And the guy was
handsome. Sounds trite to describe him that way, but
after all, the court martial could ruin his life. He might
never see the light of day again. And he seemed to have
everything going for him. Big, handsome, a girl at
home. A daddy with a business to hand over when the
time came. It made an impression. I’d never own a
business.
Anyway, Captain Blevins finished his summation of
the evidence and then the defense advocates garbled
some nonsense about burdens of proof. The reports
were stipulated to and submitted on the record: the
autopsy, character statements, the military records and
photos.
By that time, humidity had risen, sweat on
everyone’s foreheads, fatigues getting sticky, and we
hadn’t even started yet. In the Delta heat your thoughts
tend to drift.
“Corporal Kawalski,” I call out for the witness, and
nodded to the MP at the door. The defendants would
testify next and we’d wrap it up. It should be quick.
Unproblematic, as the Colonel promised.

The guard led in Kowalski, this tall, pudgy, pug
faced corporal in his size 14 boots. You’d laugh if you
saw this guy walk; he waddled, the damndest caricature
of Buster Keaton.
I swear him in, “Will you tell the truth, nothing but
the truth . . .” the whole bullshit. The kid trembles like a
bee. Sweat beads on his snout.
“Yes, sir,” he answered and drops his hand. Then he
took the witness chair in the middle of the room, and
off we go. I figured he’d be too scared to lie.
It occurred to me that I should just have him to tell
his story.
“Tell us, Corporal,” I asked, “what you recall of the
events of November 18, while on duty at the
interrogation hut.” Not bad huh?
He looks up shyly, and in a voice that strained your
ears to hear him, says “Yes sir.” Then he tells his story.
“It was a normal night. We were waiting for B
company to finish their skirmish near the Y Bridge.
They’d radioed so we knew they caught three of the
bastards . . . enemy, Sir. We were waiting for them. My
job is to secure the prisoner in the room and assist, you
know, stand by during the interrogation. Then I help the
MP’s when Sergeants Sweet and Ginh are through with
them.”

“OK. But on the 18th, you received a special
prisoner, didn’t you?”
“Yes, Sir.”
“Explain.”
“Yes, Sir. The prisoner escort sheet called her Major
Dep, a North Vietnamese regular officer sir.”
That’s the name – Dep. I remember now. I raised
my eyebrows. Captain Nghia didn’t react. The
translation for ‘Dep’ is ‘pretty,’ which is a peculiar
name for a battle worn regular. Kinda ironic, I thought.
“Did she give you any trouble during the escort, or
securing her in the room?” I ask. I was actually getting
a rhythm going, thinking I could have been a lawyer.
“No, Sir” he said. Then Kowalski became all quiet.
“So, what happens next?” I probe.
“I secured the prisoner in the chair with Ginh’s help.
Sergeant Sweet was reading the transfer report. It
outlines the prisoner’s rank, where taken, what
intelligence she may have – suggestions about what the
interrogators should ask.”
“You seem to understand the procedure.”
“Yes, Sir. I’ve done this for nine months.”
“So tell us what happened next.”
“Sergeant Sweet started asking the usual questions.
Name, rank, serial number, unit.”
“What was Ginh doing?”
“Eating a jar of pickles.”

“Pickles?”
“Yes Sir, pickles.”
“So go on corporal.”
“Well, someone knocked on the door. I had turned
the sign over earlier. See, we have a sign, kinda like
one of those Open/Closed signs at shops. Ours says
‘Interrogation. Quiet. Do not enter.’”
“So someone must have had information they
thought you could use,” I suggested.
“Yes, Sir.”
“What did they tell you?
“It was a Spec-Five from B Company. I think his
name is Willy Feibleman. He wanted to talk to Sergeant
Sweet.”
“And?”
“It’s a small room sir, just a hut. Sweet came over
and Willy whispers like.”
“Then you heard what he said. Tell us.”
Kowalski’s eyes rolled, looking for a place to land,
and then glanced over to Sweet, and then back to me.
“He said that Charlie Aimsberry and Tim Dor, and
two others, were captured by the co bitch’s company . .
. Excuse me, Sir, by the deceased prisoner’s company.”
Kowalski’s hands were now rubbing each thigh,
kneading them. He looked over to Sweet again, back
down at his shoes, and fell silent.

“You are under oath Corporal.” I say. “We want to
hear what else was said.”
“The squad got separated from their platoon, Willy
said. They found our guys buried. In a pit. We all
bunked in the same hooch, Sir. Friends. Charlie and
Tim and Darren and me. We took R&R together. Willy
was talking to the two of us.”
“OK.”
“Willy told us that the NVA commander, the
woman . . . well, she issued the order to castrate them.
Then she had them buried up to the neck in a pit. They
would’ve bled out, got tired and sleepy and just bled
out, but they died from choking, suffocating.”
“I see. From the burial?”
“No sir. Willy said she stuffed their genitals in their
mouths. When the gooks described it they laughed,
Sir.”
“Did Sergeant Ginh hear this?”
“I don’t know.”
“Let’s take a recess,” I said.
Sometimes things happen that changes your
perspective, you know. Vengeance is a powerful force.
I mean, what are you capable of doing if someone, say,
rapes your wife or something? With this testimony
Sergeant Sweet was in a world of hurt. I’m no lawyer,
but I understand motive. Ginh may have had the

propensity, but Sweet had motive. I needed to confer
with my colleague so we stepped out the back door.
Nghia lit one of those stinky sweet Asian cigarettes.
“There are only two options here, Captain Nghia,” I
told him. “Either they both were involved or one did it,
and the other stepped back.”
His Asian eyes were squinting at me as if I had
some damned hidden agenda. I was trying to get a feel
for what Nghia was thinking, that’s all.
“Ginh is a grenade ready to explode,” I said. “You
know that. But we’ve just heard something new. What
do you think?”
“I wait evidence,” Nghia said.
“Of course,” I said.
Nghia played it coy, said he wanted to take a fly at
questioning the witness. So we went back in and I told
Kowalski to be reseated in the witness chair.
“Corporal, Captain Nghia has some questions for
you,” I said.
You should have seen Nghia. He leaned forward
with his elbows on the table, hands cupped together like
this was something he did all the time, Perry Mason
calm, with a passive look on his fucking unscrupulous
face. Then he asked:
“Mr. Kowalski, did you see killing?”
“No . . .” Kowalski claimed. I looked sternly at the
corporal.

“No, Sir,” he corrected.
“Why?” Nghia persists.
“Darren told me to watch the door. From the
outside.”
“Usual?”
“No. This was the only time.”
“What you hear?”
“Screams.”
“Ri way?”
“Huh?”
“The Captain asked if she screamed right away.” I
translated.
“A minute or two later.”
“Thas all questions,” Nghia said.
I followed up.
“When you went back in what did you see?”
“Same thing you did sir . . . in the pictures I mean.
Darren left his post. Out the door. When I went in it
was over. Ginh was knelling over her, his hand on the
broom handle. He jerked when he saw me, got up and
left. That’s when I called the MP duty officer, Sir.”
“What was Sergeant Sweet’s demeanor when he left
his post?”
“Demean her?”
“Attitude. How’d he look?”
“He was crying, Sir.”
“And Ginh?”

“Just looked angry.”
The prosecutor appeared grimly satisfied. The man
hadn’t been given a chance to ask a question, so I
offered and he had none. The advocates wrote furiously
on their notepads, but also declined to question
Kowalski. Nghia fell back in his chair and crossed his
arms.
“Captain Nghia, who would you like to call as the
next witness?” I asked.
“Sweet,” he said.
“Alright,” I agreed. “Sergeant Sweet, please take the
witness chair.”
Sweet rose and looked down at his lawyer. They
exchanged eye contact. His lawyer nodded. Then Sweet
turned to me. The sergeant’s handsome face was frozen,
like a widow at her husband’s funeral. Numb,
unmoving, beyond the edge of panic. No fear or regret
or even grief. Just numb. His eyelids hung lazily. The
skin of his face, even though a young man, sagged like
an old drunk after a good night of it. I didn’t know what
to think.
“State your name and rank for the record please,” I
asked.
He recited his answer in this baleful voice, the
practiced rhythm of an interrogator who knew that
someday he may be the one in the hot seat.

“You know why we are here,” I said. “This is your
turn if you want to take it. You don’t have to. You have
the right, according to the Code of Military Justice, to
remain silent and refuse to testify.” Like I said, I read
the manual. It tells you to say that when you call the
accused.
That’s when he did it. He looks at me, then
shrugged, folds his bottom lip down. Then it turn into a
smile. Is the guy actually smirking, I asked myself?
Then his mouth flat lined into neutral, and his eyes
drooped down again.
“I take the fifth,” he said.
That’s all. That’s what he said. And that was the end
of Sweet as a witness. So, I’m left to conjure the reason
why the kid wouldn’t say what needed to be said to
save himself – that Ginh’s hand was on the broom
handle for a reason, that he watched it happen, maybe
even wanted it to happen, but he didn’t participate. The
kid looked at his lawyer and they exchanged nods.
Legal shit I suspected; so I excused him.
“Let’s call Ginh,” I told Nghia.
A Huey skirted over the hooch, drowning out the
methodical ticking of the fan.
“Ginh Binh Toa, take chair,” Nghia ordered loudly.
I’d pretty much ignored the Vietnamese sergeant up
to that point. He struck me as typical. Smallish,
although a little heftier than most; you could see ripples

of chest muscles in the opening of his fatigue shirt. His
face was flatter than most, with eye lashes long and
dark as if he had on eye liner. His complexion was
covered with little olive craters; apparently he had small
pox as a child. I’d seen it many times before in Nam.
But it gave this guy a grimy, earthy look. Unlike Sweet,
Ginh’s eyes were alert. He hopped up and hobbled to
the witness chair with a noticeable limp. I swore him in.
This was Nghia’s soldier, his responsibility. Ginh
would be his witness.
“Tell.” Captain Nghia ordered.
That was it. “Tell.” I had no idea what rules
governed a Vietnamese Court Marshal, but there was
no advice of rights, or right to remain a mute and make
them prove it. Just “Tell.”
“I no lose temper. No hur Co Dep.” Gin said.
‘Co,’ was the gender indicator, meaning woman.
Nghia just looked down at him, leaned back and
crossed his arms again. His patience was waning. Ginh,
from the witness chair, looked straight up at Nghia –
no-one else mattered – his penetrating black eyes
bearing on his inquisitor.
“Kowalski true. I no hear soldier. Guar, Kowalski,
leave ow door. Swee curss, broom by door, he taa, hia
Co Dep. Hia cross face. Har. Say, “lay herr dow.” I tie
han. Tie fee.”

The photographs of the room showed hooks screwed
into the floor. I was told they were there to secure
chairs to the floor when multiple witnesses were
brought in. Seeing your buddy get pummeled
sometimes loosens your tongue, they told me. Dep was
tied on the floor spread legged, arms out, sacrificial
style.
“I no know wha Swee do. He red. He say tae cloe
dow. I remoo pan . . . ca em . . . Swee bree broo. . .
vagine. Threa . . . her . . . fear herr. I wai . . .”
At that point Ginh dipped his head and shook it.
Nghia, true to form, said nothing, just barely shifted in
his chair and patted his biceps irritably in interwoven
crossed arms. Ginh looks up.
“Up herr. Har. She screa. Up herr mo. She screa. I
no kno whaa do. He push. Har. She screa. He tae broo. .
. raise up, up, and she busss. I hear. She screa. Brea . .
. sna . . . sna. It sna. Brea. Swee tae ow. . . raise up,
spear dow har. Sto machh.” Ginh bowed his head again.
Exhibit four was one of seven photographs. It was
taken from a position near her feet. Obviously, the
photographer had kneeled to take the shot. Her pelvis
area was barbecue sauce, a bloody stick at the entrance.
Hash. Her stomach impaled by the broken broom
handle. Her face frozen in agony. Her eyes were locked
and bulging. The jagged point of the broken broom

handle was covered with blood flowing from her
midsection.
The autopsy contained three main findings. She died
from a combination of shock and blood loss and the
tearing of her bladder, uterus, and bowel. The fetus was
four months old. Its neck was severed by the wooden
spear point. Her pelvis broke in two, snapped like Ginh
said. Apparently the leveraged up-thrust simultaneously
perforated the uterus wall and entered the bowel.
“Done,” said Nghia. He looked over to me with cool
eyes. His face was uncompromisingly impassive.
I couldn’t leave it like that.
My job . . . I mean . . . my job was to get a balanced
view, and . . . well, Ginh had reason to lie. You see that,
don’t you? I admit I’m a bit agitated at that point, so I
asked Ginh the obvious question.
“Corporal Kowalski saw your hand on the broom
handle. Saw you kneeling over her. If what you said is
true, why would you . . . ?”
There was a question there, but I’m no lawyer, I
couldn’t quite articulate the obvious, that the guy was
seen with the murder weapon, angry, a moment after he
killed her.
“Why?” he repeated.
“Yes, why on top of her? Your hand on the
weapon?”
“I pray.”

“Pray?”
Did I hear him right? His eyes were round and
glassy now, suggesting that I should have known what
he was doing. Praying? Like be real.
Then Nghia nudged me; he slid a photograph across
the table. Dep’s face was out of frame, but on her neck
there hung a necklace, and from the necklace a Cross. I
looked over at Ginh, for something on the edge of my
awareness. You know how it is, feeling something is
true but not putting your finger on it. Anyway, as Ginh
leans forward, there’s a slight movement over his
hairless chest. I could barely make it out: another thin
necklace with a dainty crucifix.
The next morning the Colonel came by the
dispensary.
“Manslaughter,” he said, repeating my verdict. “I
was told the ARVN sergeant was acquitted. So how’d
you land on manslaughter?”
“Question of credibility, Sir,” I answered. “Ginh
could have lied. Had reason to lie, and if Ginh was the
killer then Sweet should have stopped it. Manslaughter
fit.”
“Well, good job,” said the Colonel. “The sergeant’s
a good kid who had one bad night. Exactly what I
expected.”

So that’s how it went, and why my vote is for
Darren Sweet to be Rotary’s Man of the Year. Sure, he
made a mistake years ago. But look what he’s done
since, and who, under these circumstances, wouldn’t
have taken their own pound of flesh? Justice was
served. Right?


