I am drifting high above a dense forest, and there is a tall tree towering above the rest. It looks
from a distance as if there should be an eagle’s nest on top of this massive oak, one that has
grown a good twenty feet over a forest that is already seventy feet high Yet, as I approach from
above, there is no eagle. There is no mighty bird claiming this strategic perch. The branches
seem artificial from this distance, like they are coated with a magical frost sparkling off starlight
in a blazing moonless sky. There are no city lights here, and darkness under the cover of the
forest is black, with no visibility at ground level on this clear and brilliant night. I circle around it.
Perhaps I am the eagle who is destined to find this lonely perch, and conquer its power and
command its territory. I wonder how I can think as I was, yet question my being as another
species. Am I still myself?

A shaft of white light seems to emanate from the trunk of the oak and blast skyward, straight up
like the light display they created to memorialize the twin towers after they fell. The shaft is
narrow, but intense like theatrical klieg lights on a sci-fi movie set. I slow to an exploratory
circling, and find myself bathed in the ambient glow around the pillar of light. As I move closer,
there is a power, a force so strong I have no desire to resist it as it pulls me into its mystic
influence. I look downward to the ground. The shaft seems to begin at ground level, and
permeates the trunk of the tree so intensely that it seems to merge with the vertical rod of
luminous energy that reaches the stars above. I circle around the foliage on top, leaves that now
look like glowing silver, with crystalline branches holding them close to the ethereal light beam
blasting skyward.

As I circle in a long spiral towards the ground, I can see that there are no branches below the
neighboring mantle of trees around this massive shaft. The trunk of this mystery source is a
straight shaft, with glowing muscular veins slightly bulging from its vertical pillar. But the fivefoot diameter trunk is not wood. It is not oak, though the shape of the leaves convinces me that
it was most like the red oak species I knew. The trunk seems to be made of glowing glass...or
perhaps luminous ice. I can see through it and notice other trees nearby, as if I am peering
through a strange vertical magnifying glass.

I spiral lower towards the ground, and I can now see some of its surface roots, also glowing with
light, as if the source was far below, under what may be the earth. The roots seem to pulsate;
now stronger, sending rolling surges of luminous energy up the trunk of the tree and into the
sky. When I land at the base, I can feel its warmth and energy. I still wonder whether it is glass
or ice. It appears more like the realistic ice sculptures I had seen at an ice palace festival in
Minnesota one winter, with giant ice eagles carved out of massive blocks by an artist with
nothing more than a chainsaw.

I am perplexed. How can this energy tree be made of ice when there are palpable signs of heat
and energy emanating from the trunk? The vertical convex lens makes the trees behind it
appear warped like a funhouse mirror, yet the only tree in the forest that possesses this magic is
this glass oak. Strange that it seems to shimmer a little, like plasma, solid, yet clearly fluid with
moving energy. Hollywood would be proud.

I approach it tentatively. I refuse to be afraid in this bizarre environment. It seems to react to

me, as if to acknowledge my presence. I carefully embrace the trunk at the base, hugging it as if
it were some sensuous being I loved. I feel its warmth, and it consumes me into its trunk, a
strange metamorphosis of my body with the shaft of energy, glass, ice—whatever this
existential plasma is. I am digested into it, inside the trunk, and am projected upwards by the
energy pulsing to the top. The speed of the journey quickens as I rise higher. I glance at my
hands to see if I am still human, but they’ve turned to glass, the bones, blood and ligaments
translucent. I meld with the trunk as the light consumes me. As I shoot towards the sky, I have a
feeling deep in my groin like the most powerful orgasm of my life, consuming every nerve in my
body. My hair shoots straight up. My skin seems to tingle and then quake with powerful
outbursts of energy.

I look straight up through the trunk, and raise my arms to the sky. There is a tearing feeling
through my hair, like a wind tunnel, yet I don’t feel damaged or hurt as I blast upward through
the transparent plasma. I see the branches speeding towards me, and I know that soon I will
burst out the top and into the sky. I see past the mantel of the giant tree, and for the first time
notice the tiny connective trickles of light touching the farthest galaxies. The light increases in
intensity until I can barely stand it even with my eyes closed. The world glows through my
eyelids. I almost beg for the transformation, the consummate experience of my journey. When I
burst out the top, it will be the last thing I feel as a human.


