Six at a time, snowflakes fell like feathers. Swaying gently at first, spiraling their little
dance before making contact with the verglas window. Thoughts swirled accompanying the
white puffs of crystal. He watches as they fluttered and floated covering the last bit of grass in
extremis. His eyes followed watching as a sheet of untouched snow landed smoothly in the yard
of other homes. It reminded him of his younger self.
When his small arms struggled as they wrapped a long itchy green scarf around his neck.
He would lift the scarf to cover his mouth and chin from the cold and proceeded to cover his ears
with a soft fluffy hat. As a child he always misplaced his mittens, he risked venturing out,
exposing his small hands to frigid air. Freezing air always greeted him as he stepped out of the
house. He regretting not finding his mittens and huddled in himself. He trailed around to look for
a shovel. Every day his chore was to shovel off the driveway in order to watch the cartoons that
came on in the morning. So he would wake up at almost five to clean the long icy drive. His
mother left at three in the morning, she was a nurse at a near by hospital in town. The driveway
was virtually untouched save for the tire tracks his mother left leaving for work in the morning.
He hurried so that he would catch his show at seven a.m. Grabbing the shovel from the side of
the house he stuck it into the snow and moved it off of the blacktop. His fingers freezing to the
handle.
A sudden vibration broke the trance as well as the silence. Buzzing seemed to come from
the corner of the room. Merely sighing, he pushed his body away from the cold window. His

movements stiffened as he turned to face the inner walls. The walls, a champagne cream
decorated only by a photo of a Geisha Holding an umbrella beneath a cherry tree. He shuffled his
way towards the bed where the phone lay lit. A message displayed on the screen. He reached for
the device but hesitated from the weight of guilt. At this angle, the geisha stared at his frozen
hands, as if sensing where he struggled to erase his pain. He held the phone up, close to his face
and squinted, struggling to read the letters.

Mrs. Jorgensen is a good one, I’ll send you her number.

He set the phone on the small nightstand beside the bed. It occurred to him how cold his
hands grew and curled them into his palms creating gentle fists. He made his way back towards
the chair by the window. Sitting down, he traced the inner lining of the charcoal colored coat he
wore. Guiding his fingers around the detailed stitching which held its entirety intact. A single
tear collided with the fabric, soaking the area it touched. Heartache overwhelmed him as more
tears followed one after another. He pressed the ball of his hands into his eyes, straining to forget
her. The phone buzzed again.

(497)803-4289.
Buzz,
Please don’t isolate yourself.

He felt as though the messages were made for someone else. As if someone else's
mother had vanished. As if it were someone else’s pain he was feeling. Uncurling his fists he
looked out the fogging window.
He and his sister waited near the window in this room each day, awaiting their mothers
arrival from work. Their breaths fogged up the glass and they would draw little shapes and words
inside, passing the time after their cartoons.
He drew a small figure in the corner of the fogged glass and drew two smaller ones near.
He imagined the accident was a dream and continued waiting for her return from work. Looking
through the same window, he wanted her silver prius to pull into the drive where she would hop
out in the lapis colored scrubs. Fixing her ponytail like she does, tightening it before entering her
own home with a tired smile.

He felt his skin shift and squirm before the final vibration signaled defeat.

Mom wouldn’t have wanted you to be this way, Jason. Call me when you get the chance.
Don’t forget to try the Mrs. Jorgensen, she’s a great therapist.

Jason walked towards the door and stopped. Weight clung to his shoulders threatening to
drag him down. Being close to his mother added more weight to the load. But he forced himself
anyhow. Trudging through the dimly lit hallway, he passed her face in every photo on the
yellowed walls. His body became a machine now, moving each leg robotically with concealed
contumacy. He stumbled his way to the dining room table. The crushing bleakness surrounded

him in the emptiness of the room. He felt his body cave inward although not physically, he
shuddered. Lingering before a small dining table, he thought about his mom while he stared and
time consumed him. Finally, he felt his heart thumping in his chest. Reminding him of the warm
blood that once caressed his palms. The thought soothes him calmly. He inhaled, taking the dry
air through his lungs, urging him to cough. Shakily, he reached out to touch the smooth metal
barrel of the .38 magnum revolver in front of him. Pain and fascination overtook his senses at
the new texture beneath his fingertips. He took the bracing weapon in his hands, it became an icy
deadweight in his anxiousness.
Clicking the cylinder back into place, he weighed the gun in his hands once more.
Feeling the uncanniness of the object fade away. Holding the gun, he cradles it to his chest. He
cradled it as his mother would him. A small smile escapes his lips. His body relaxing as he held
death by its smooth body and wavered as he made his way back into the hall and slumped against
the wall. Feeling his mom’s disappointment stab through him. He took picture frame in his view
and he held the small gun up. His finger hovered at the trigger for a moment until the machine
started working again and he pulled.
The glass shattered exploding into the walls although his skin felt nothing. The bullet
penetrated deep behind the tottering picture frame until it fell exposing the scar and shattering
even more on the hardwood. Warm liquid ran down obscuring his vision. He reached up, and
smeared his hands in the liquid and observed the glossy texture sinking into his fingerprints. The
scarlet red of blood ignited his memories. Again, he pointed the gun up and shot. One by one the
frames exploded, falling to the ground with ear piercing delicacy. Five portraits settled on the
cracked brown floor to match the five bullet holes in the wall.

Dropping the weapon he buried his head into his knees and sobbed. He sobbed for hours
until the impending darkness approached. His body reluctantly lifted itself up and walked toward
the dining room. He took off his coat, feeling it slide against shards of glass impaling his body.
Bloodstains blotched artistically in the grayscale of his coat. His mind began clouding, his vision
fading. He barely had enough strength to turn around to see someone open the door before he
collapsed.


