He lived in a cabin on the side of a mountain. He didn’t know the mountain’s
name – he’d begun walking into the forest without a map, without any knowledge of the
place. He’d lost something in that old life, and had come here for a new one.
He’d done something foolish. He’d stopped at the base of this mountain – though
it had seemed like a hill at the time – and decided where to live based on how tired he
was. That animal logic had been the basis for his foundation in this valley. Well enough,
perhaps, that he’d chosen the site for his cabin at random. Without knowledge, it was the
best he could have done. Better than a bad guess.
He’d done foolish things. By building his cabin from nearby trees he’d created a
meadow surrounding his residence. This caused a mudslide some time around his second
year; one which nearly killed him. His home stood out like a sore thumb, though no
adventurers had yet knocked on his door.
There was nothing profound in that old life. No noticing – no appreciation of
one’s surroundings. He had moved through that old life like a piston, gathering and
expending energy for a larger machine that he couldn’t understand. He had been a
mechanism through which flowed money and time.
He had only his hatchet and bow now. In this new life, he couldn’t rely on the
nearest food truck or shopping center to satisfy his animal urges. A barrier went up
between his needs and his satisfaction. His every step became profound, his every hour a
chance to better himself or perish. Anything else, he now believed, was not truly living.

His door rattled under the bear’s claws. He had one small hole in his ceiling –
anything more would be suicide in the cold winter months – but times like these made
him miss the luxury of a window. He looked up at that man-sized hole in his ceiling and
wondered if he should get up onto his roof. The cabin was a mere ten-by-ten feet. The
bear could easily smash down the door – by it’s growl he guessed it to be at least half a
ton. Should it enter, he’d have three seconds to scramble out the hole in his roof. He’d
give all the windows in the world for a back door.
The bear rumbled toward the opposite end of the house. He closed his eyes in
relief. Climbing up prematurely might have been fatal. Of course the bear knew he was
here. But it was fall, and it would be searching for meals roughly man-sized. It was better
to remain out of sight. The bear scratched itself against the bull pine walls, but the house
stood firm.
He heard the bear turn again. It moved back toward the door. How like an animal.
How asystematic. It began huffing at the baseboards again, its shadow falling over the
threshold. He wondered what the bear meant by all that sniffing. Surely it knew what lay
inside the cabin. The bear did not have a plan. It collected sense without purpose.
He waited. He had his bow in hand, though he did not expect arrows to save him.
He had sympathy with the predator. If he could not save himself with the arrows, it would
be better not to wound the animal at all.
His heartbeat crescendoed in his eardrums, and his fingers shook with adrenaline.
He looked down at the nock of his arrow, and at his grip there. He could not shoot – he
knew that now.

He took the arrow from the catgut string and let it fall by his side. The arrows –
each of his twelve arrows – were holy to him. He lay his bow next to the missile, flexing
his fingers all the while to end their drugged spasms. He would die on his own terms.
He knelt down by the bow and bowed his head. The hurruf of the bear’s massive
lungs sent leaves skittering under the door. He closed his eyes. The bear may or may not
kill him. But had he not come here for death? He had never meant to live in the forest. He
had meant to die here.

His fingers still shook as he listened to the bear trundle away from the door. Night
was coming, and even the bear could taste the coming snow on the wind. His fingers felt
like wax, dirty and limp as they were. He sighed and put his fingers into his armpits,
crossed arms hugging his chest in the hope of regulating his breath.
His body did not want to die. He had meant to be calm – had meant to face death
with quiet conviction. His body had betrayed him. Something deep within was ready to
fight tooth and claw to hold on.
He knew this from his first days in the forest. Laying down on that first fateful
walk, he’d never intended to rise. But he’d built a house, learned to hunt and forage. A
monumental effort, for a dead man.
He listened to the wind whistling over the hole in his roof. The wind played his
house like a jug. He rose. He needed to start a fire – a small one – before darkness truly
set upon him. He needed to cook and eat and sleep.

He heard knocking from within the drunkenness of sleep. It was different than the
scraping of bear claws or the rattling of wind. He listened for a few seconds more. The
repetition and regularity were human. The precise planning – the pauses between knocks
to allow for call and response – it was almost foreign to him now.
Hello, called a voice from the outside. Another shock of knuckles on wood. Hello,
is anyone there?
He rose, carefully peeling himself from his deerskin. He laid his covers to the side
and stared at the fire. He’d left the fire burning. This was it. This creature would not leave
as the bear had. No two men can meet each other unscathed.
I need help, said the voice. It was a female voice, then. I need help badly.
He looked into the fire. He was no longer afraid. Film seemed to fall from his
eyes as he stared at the flame. The voice outside was afraid. He felt sympathy for the
prey.
He stood and took his bow in hand, stringing it in a breathless half-second. He
nocked an arrow. He looked down at himself. He was armed and fully clothed. His jeans
were torn and patched with small hides, his jacket stiff and loosely tied with leather
straps. He would not kill this woman. He would simply cause her to move along.
Please, the voice said.
He stared at the door. Yes, he was nervous. But it was a different type of anxiety;
one of anticipation rather than fear. I will open the door, he said, if you back away.
He hadn’t spoken to another human in years. I am sorry, he said, I am afraid.
The voice barked an affirmative yah, and the woman seemed to back away from
the cabin. He walked to the door and undid the slotted latch. He nudged the door open

with his foot and walked back apace, holding the bow parallel to the floor so not as to
hinder himself against the low ceiling.
He’d done something foolish again. Staring into the fire, he’d gotten his eyes used
to the light. This night was pitch black, with only the dim blue of frost for contrast. Now
he could only see her in silhouette. There was, however, a reflection in her eyes – a dim
sheen of orange that mirrored his dying fire.
His eyes began to readjust. The woman had a green jacket that had been torn
down the side. She carried herself on a walking stick that had been fashioned from local
lumber – probably carved this very day, from the looks of it.
She nodded, and he returned the gesture. He lowered his bow.

He woke sore the next morning. He wasn’t in his pelts and furs. He was laying on
the hard-packed earth he kept for a floor.
He rolled over and looked at the fire. It had burned to embers. Beyond those small
sparks of life lay his pelts and furs, open and empty.
There had been a woman, he thought. He’d offered her his sleeping area and
placed himself so that the fire separated their sleeping bodies. It seemed the knightly
thing to do.
There hadn’t been much need for talking between them. She had been attacked in
some way, though he hadn’t pried too far into the details. She had seemed surprised to
find him there, surprised that he could only supply shelter and protection. It had seemed
that way, at least.

He groaned and sat up. The wind hummed its tune over the hole in his roof.
Perhaps she had stepped outside. He stood and made his way to the door.
His hand hovered over the slotted latch. Why, he wondered, did he want to check
on her? Would he prevent her from leaving? Talk? He’d come away from her world. That
was the end of it.
Perhaps she meant to report his whereabouts. The thought excited something in
his chest. Fury first, then…
He went for his bow. Without thinking, he took it, strung it, and gathered his
twelve arrows. He began to wonder what he meant by bringing up his weapon. He made
his way to the door.
His hand hovered over the latch. He sighed. Perhaps it would be better to stay
inside until the danger had passed. But what did he have to fear?
He opened the latch and stepped outside. The ground crunched beneath his feet.
He surveyed his meadow. There was no sign of the woman. There were no telltale
footprints around the door. Of course, the frost and mud had managed to disguise even
the bear’s fresh tracks. The woman had been light and nimble, hadn’t she? She could
have gotten out of the cabin without his noticing. She could be headed back to safety at
this very moment.
He began to walk, closing the door behind him. A light snow fell between the
pine branches. He began walking away from the mountain.
He began to smile at himself. The woman had been a part of some dream. She’d
been a figment of his imagination. A self-delusional fantasy.

Yet he continued to walk. It wasn’t that he wanted to chase her. No – there was
something else that carried him away from the cabin. He remembered his walk from
civilization, his escape from the monotony and cheap living that taxed him so.
He’d come to this forest with the intention of taking his own life. That had been
his fantasy. But it only struck him now why he’d survived. Death hadn’t been the fantasy.
The fantasy was that someone would come to rescue him. He’d wanted only for a hero to
come and give him everything he most desired.
No hero had come. Then, picking up hatchet and flint, he’d become his own hero.
He smiled, watching the snow come down. Now began the lean months of winter, those
weeks dedicated to rest and contemplation. He would celebrate another year as his own
master and slave back in the cabin, if he turned around now.
Yet he kept on, not noting the path behind or ahead. He was unsure of where his
feet took him, yet he found himself unable to stop.
He entered another clearing. To his surprise, he was on the path that had taken
him to his home on the unnamed mountain. He found himself going back to that old
world he hated so.
He’d either dreamt of the woman or met her. If it had been a fantasy, some part of
him was crying out for her to be real. And if she was real, he could not stay on the side of
that mountain. He knew that now.


