It was a green room. What made it look green were the curtains which
extended down from high white ceilings. The carpet was green. I remember that
well, because my face looked down on it while uncle Sam fondled me. And I can see
now the legs of the couches, like white lion’s paws. The couches themselves trying
very hard to be upper-class in a middleclass home.
It all happened in my grandmother’s house. My parents were housesitting
while she and grandpa were away. Grandpa was frequently going on business trips
overseas. They left my uncle with us. He was sixteen and I was six. I don’t remember
how it started, but I remember how it became routine.
My parent’s relationship at the time was hot or cold, never normal. My dad
was either intensely romantic or violently explosive. He scared me when he got real
quiet. I was afraid to speak then. I knew that it didn’t matter what I said. He could be
chewing his food one second then fly across the table and backhand you the next. He
was always “protecting his dignity”. The subject of an argument between my parents
was rarely the point, it was always about his dignity being threatened. And now he
was unemployed, living in my grandmother’s house, a woman whom he despised
and who despised him. My father is not a man of action. He would rather lay on a
couch and stew in his hatred for months, years even, before he makes one move to
improve his situation. It was just easier to blame my mother. But I don’t want to
paint him as a villain either. I guess he’s troubled, but its not something you could

In the Green Room-2

ever put your finger on like with most people, except maybe that he was always
nostalgic for his childhood back in Lebanon.
He lost a brother there in a shooting, but when he was older. Something
about his childhood. He just couldn’t leave it. We use to go to the beach sometimes
and he would carry me and look out across the sea. His eyes would glaze over and
suddenly he was no longer with me, in the moment. Maybe my father left his spirit
somewhere in the rolling green valleys and fields of dancing gold, in the place of his
birth, in the place of my birth, Baalbeck, Lebanon. He was in his office now almost all
day writing on those big yellow notepads. There must have been at least 200 of
them laying on the floor, sitting on his desk, piled on the bookshelves, filled with line
after line of Arabic writing which I could no longer understand. That bothered him.
My mother, affectionately called ma-ma, sacrificed everything she had and
was for her family. She was a man of action. I say man, because she had to be both
mother and father in the responsible sense. She couldn’t be home all day to watch
me. The thought that her sixteen-year-old brother could molest her 6-year-old
daughter was about a million miles off her radar. Who could imagine such a thing?
Who would want to?
She was an elementary school teacher, so she got home later than me. My dad
was taking classes downtown, trying to get his PhD when all this happened, so he
would often spend his nights at the library. When I came home it was just me and
my uncle. He treated me with love so I trusted him. But then things started to

In the Green Room-3

change. He began to tell me things about how people who loved each other showed
their love in different ways. He led me into the green room with the green curtains
and the green carpet, the afternoon light shining through, the gentle wind rustling
the green fabric. Everything in the room was always clean, spotless, because it was
never used. The couches were layered with plastic to keep off the dust. This room
was reserved for guests. He slowly pulled my underwear down and unzipped his
corduroy pants, placing his penis from behind and rubbing and wiggling it on my
vagina. I couldn’t understand what was happening to me, but it felt wrong, dirty.
And the cleanliness of this green room magnified my shame as this thing became an
afterschool ritual. I didn’t dare tell. I was sure I had done something wrong, but my
mother began to notice me getting paler, keeping to myself, not smiling or laughing
anymore, something I always did.
I buried it all down deep, like it wasn’t really happening to me, like it was in a
dimension outside reality. This helped me to cope. I was young, but wise, never
naïve to the fact that adults could do terrible things to children. I had witnessed
teachers humiliate the weak just because they could. I began to wonder whether or
not people enjoyed hurting each other. School often felt like a prison to me. There
was always a particular adult who was hell-bent on breaking our spirits. I learned
many things in school, reading, writing and arithmetic where the least of this
knowledge. I learned about people, about authority, about politics and exploitation.
You may say I was too young to pick up on such things, but I wasn’t. the more I was

In the Green Room-4

underestimated, the more I saw. Innocence is a brief time in a child’s life and then it
is a struggle to hold on to. I knew that what my uncle did could kill it forever if I let
it. It was then that my will was formed, turned stubborn against this rape of my
childhood and vehement to keep it.
I eventually told my mother, but I don’t remember this day at all, where mama insists that she cursed and screamed at my uncle and that my father threatened
to kill him. No, I don’t remember it. My uncle never touched me again, but we stayed
in that house for another month so we could save on rent. Between my mental
health and cheap rent, I guess I was on the losing end. And then; the worst of all
betrayals, absolute silence by all, but a silence so high in pitch, it shattered my sixyear-old soul.
I sat at the dinner table with my head down, secretly lifting my eyes to stare
at faces, arms, gestures, that to me no longer represented reality, but a world in
which people could go on with life after committing horrible acts and not show even
a wisp of truth or self-realization. What could I do? Was I to lay down and die? I was
acutely aware that my innocence was taken and that to survive I would have to find
a way all on my own of regenerating it. It took unbelievable will and a perfect
stubbornness to never be taken advantage of by adults again. My parents ceased to
be gods and became human and frail. I had to look outside my family for the
strength to save the child almost lost. I did not want to become like my father, get
stuck, lose hope, be forever trapped in that green room.

In the Green Room -5

I was made to carry the shame and the burden of this devastating denial, this
roaring elephant, this lie, for the rest of my life. I saw my uncle every weekend when
he visited with my grandma year after year. A fury and mistrust of all adults
continued to burn within me and every year the flames stoked higher as at every
turn they tried to put my life on some pre-determined track.
All those who were meant to protect me let me down. I felt alone eternally. A
kind of survivalist mode set in to help me forget, so I could live. That fury, that rage,
it kept my spirit from disappearing, along with books, poetry, and music. I would
never really trust anyone again. But despite everything and in the face of it all, I held
on to the child inside. I have gone through even worse tragedies in my life and
somehow that child refuses to die. That child from that green room, ever defiant,
ever a warrior.


