PEEPERS: Pseudacris crucifer an inch long, dark stripe on
side of head; dark X markings on back. In winter, water in
their bodies can freeze. During spring mating, thousands of
males, each calling with a shrill, continuously repeated “peep”
can be heard for miles.
Outside, the peepers called.
Inside, Chandra, her belly distended to near translucence,
muttered in her sleep. Once lithe as a gymnast, she now
walked spraddle legged, her tumescence steering her as if
she were the wayward child of her own pregnancy.
Outside, the peepers chorused.
Inside, I remembered I hadn’t lit a yarhtzeit candle for my
mother's death a year ago.
The moon broke above the birch trees at the edge of the
pond. The mullions cast shadow crosses on the bare, pine
floor. The peepers cried, 'Spring/sprung. Spring/sprung.'
Chandra rolled toward me. Her nightgown cinched around
her swollen middle. I put my lips to the inside of her wrist. It
felt moist. Her skin smelled fecund. Her fingers closed. Her
lips moved, she exhaled.
The streaming cadence of the peepers beckoned, 'Come
see spring sprung/Come see spring sprung.' I slipped from
bed. The floor was cool. Chandra curled around her second

self. The peepers drummed. I pulled on shorts; stepped
over the palm print Chandra had painted on the threshold.
In the curtain dimmed moonlight of the sleep drenched
house, walking was like swimming. Pale shafts of light
dissolved the edges of the stairs. The clock radio's green
glow and the blinking red light of the phone served as
navigational buoys. A bassinet piled with tiny blankets, the
chromium legs of the highchair loomed like shoals. The glass
framed photographs were whited out: me on my mother's lap;
me hidden under dark curls, playing with Sam; Chandra in
pigtails; Chandra posed with my mother. On the kitchen
table, a cutting from the lilac bush wavered next to Chandra's
tea cup. Polo floated up and nudged my hand with her cold
nose. I gave her a biscuit; stepped into my sneakers.
The back door clipped shut behind me. At the pond's
edge the peepers' tiny, iridescent eyes glinting, bobbed. Their
throats pulsated. They clambered one atop another, wedged
sideways, tipped over. Some, in mid cry, slipped back into
the water. A bat swooped. The peepers' notes rose in pitch.
A stone shattered the pond's surface. The ripples
silenced the peepers. Near the ferns, at the edge of the
pond, a small boy half hidden under dark, curtly hair searched
for another stone.
"Don't you like the sound of the peepers?" I asked.
He pointed behind him.
Stephanie sat on the moonlit stone bench her blond hair
in a thick braid. Her legs were bare. The peepers exploded
in renewed frenzy.
Stephanie twisted the end of her braid. "No, hello?"
"I'm hoarse from long silence."

"What a quaint greeting. Who are you quoting?”
"No one." I rubbed my ankle with the toe of my sneaker.
"You're looking good."
She lowered her head. "I've put on weight."
"How's Chris?"
"Fine. Working hard." She fingered her ring. "You're up
late. You've got no socks on. Are you coming or going?"
"I live here." I pointed. "House, pond. I'm married."
"I heard." She turned her hands palm up in her lap. "I've
forgotten her name."
"Chandra."
"Pretty name.” She smiled. “I hope your mother is
pleased."
I shrugged. "Yours should really be."
"Touché." She laughed.
"How old's the boy?
"Don't you know?" She crossed her legs, tugged down
on her skirt. Her foot swung back and forth. "Take a good
look."
I knelt on the damp grass; looked into the boy's mirror
black eyes. "What's your name?"
He cocked his head. His lips moved. The peepers
screamed.
A jumble of words, words I could not say to this boy
image in the uncertain light beside the peepers’ pond: 'there
is upstairs a child to be a little like you, dreaming of peepers
inside his mother's inland pond,’
The boy, eyes fixed on me, retreated; buried his face in
Stephanie's lap. She ran her fingers through his black curls.
"Jesus. Is he? Does Chris know? How did this

happen? Why didn't you say anything?"
"How did this happen?" She covered the boy's ears. "In
the usual way I assure you. It's the anniversary..."
"I had no idea. Steph. I . . ."
"Of course you had no idea. I didn't tell you."
"I ..." I stood. "He's beautiful."
"Shh." She made the sign of the cross over him. "You
don't need to say anything. He's mine." She pressed him
tight. "All mine. It was an accident. You were too young.
Too full of yourself. Everything was a joke, whether others
got it or not you'd laugh. And you were always going on
about that girl, what was her name?"
"Jennifer."
"And, at first I didn't know what I was going to do." She
smoothed her skirt. "It hurt. For a long time really, it hurt.
But, I got well. On my own, like a tree around a stone, pain
must be absorbed." In the moonlight her eyes shifted from
blue to black. "And, thank God, there was Christopher."
"You should have told me, Stephanie. I would have"
"You would have what? You abandoned me."
"A vile thing to say. I did not. I called. You should have
said something. I’m not like that Stephanie."
"Really?" Stephanie stroked the boy's back.
"No, damn you. It was one year. Give myself one year,
in L.A. Find out if I had the discipline. Vindicate my mother's
faith in her son's talent. I called and called. You never
answered. Not a word, not even..."
Stephanie tilted her head. "What was there to say? To
whom? You were gone. I was pregnant. One year?To
confirm your mother's faith? Listen to yourself, even now.

Don't be absurd.” She flipped her braid behind her. "I'm
fine. No thanks to you. Christopher is very good. He gets
along perfectly with my parents; he’s a wonderful father.”
She smiled. “He dotes on the boy.”
"I'm glad, Stephanie. Really." The peepers trilled. "Does
Chris know?"
"Of course not." Stephanie touched the gold cross at her
throat. "Why should he? He had a Jewish grandmother.
There are old photos. Everyone is satisfied. Pleased,
actually." With one finger she turned her ring around.
I took a step closer. "Were you miserable when I did love
you?"
"I don’t know. It wasn't love. I’m happy now."
The boy tugged at her dress.
I reached a hand out. "Should I tell him?"
She shook her head. The shadow of my hand passed
over his face. He shrank against his mother.
Stephanie stood. "You mustn't abandon Chandra."
"Abandon Chandra? That's outrageous."
"You don’t understand. How could you? You poor boy,
you know nothing. Every pregnant woman feels abandoned,
transformed; feelings, tastes, smells. The real world is
submerged, leaving us in a sea of doubts. Consumed from
within. You will never understand. Look at you standing
there, while your wife sleeps alone. But not alone, never
again alone." She brushed the boy's hair. "Only abandoned
by you.”
The boy pressed against Stephanie’s hip, tugged on her
arm. She took his hand, turned toward the house. Her braid

swayed.
The ferns fluttered. The shrill of the peepers rose.
A year ago, at mother's funeral, rabbi Stein handed me
the square of torn, black cloth. Chandra pinned it to my
jacket. Sammy's plane was snowbound in Chicago. The
rabbi's prayers clung in white splotches to his beard. He
passed me the shovel. Star bursts of ice crystals flared in the
falling dirt. Between spadefuls I wiped at my eyes. Chandra
leaned against me.
The Peepers paused. In the silence, Polo came bounding out,
behind her my mother dressed in black, her blanched face
pinched; her voice sibilant, "You don't look well. Have you
finished your book, yet?
"Mom. It's Sammy who’s writing a book."
"But, look at you. Why don't you have socks on? That's
how you catch cold. You don't have anything wrong with your
feet do you?"
"No, Mom. My feet are fine. It's spring. I don't need
socks. I'm not going anywhere." Polo sat at mother's feet,
ears erect. The peepers renewed their calls. "Hear the
peepers?"
"Is that the racket?" Mother winced, pressed her hands to
her side. “Can't you do something?”
“It’s their mating call.”
“It must be very hard to sleep."
"Not at all. We live here. This is our place, our home, our
pond." The peepers throbbed.
"A grown up boy. Mazel tov. But how grown up is it to be

outside in the middle of the night with no socks?" Polo crept
forward; stretched out. "At bed time, every night, I had to sing
you a lullaby. ‘Gone is the sun,’ over and over and over
again. Remember?” A single strand of pearls gleamed at her
neck. In the moonlight, her lips were black. “How spoiled
you were. You wouldn't go play until I buttered your toast
and sprinkled cinnamon sugar on it. Such a little kvetch. If
you didn't like something you had a belly ache.” Her lips
contracted. She pressed a fist to her side. “Are you eating
right, now, at least?"
"Mom, Chandra is an excellent cook."
"What would my little, cinnamon toast boy know from
excellent cook?” She touched the pearls at her throat. “That
Chandra was a sly one. She saw something good when she
looked at you - a green card."
"Mother, please."
"What, mother please. People who don't know think she's
a shvartzeh. Not that I have anything against them." Her
bone thin fingers spread wide. "What was wrong with a nice,
Jewish girl like, Jennifer Toltz?" A cloud drifted in front of the
moon. The peepers' calls cascaded. "You had to chase a
blond. She called, you know. The shiksa called but I
wouldn't take a message."
"Stephanie called? You never said."
"Was that her name? I must have forgot. There's nothing
to be upset about. People forget."
"I'm not upset, Mom. It was a long time ago."
She reached to caress me. A shadow crossed my cheek.
"And that dark girl? the one who's a good cook."
"She is. You've said so yourself. You praised her curry.

We're married. We're going to have a baby."
“A baby? How should a boykin like you be making a
baby? You know from nothing about babies. Once, for five
minutes, just once, I left you to look after Samuel. Next thing
he is screaming and covered in blood. What kind of a
person would do that?" She pressed her hands to her
midsection. "An accident, you said. Accidents come from
God." Her fingers trembled. "Always, you. You think only of
yourself."
"It's in the past, Mom. We’ve been through all that. Are
you cold? Do you want to come inside."
"I'm always cold. It’s the pain. It doesn't matter." She
tugged at the sleeve of her dress. "First you were a baby and
then you abandoned me for Los Angeles. You needed to be a
somebody. Did you think because you were first born you
would always be best loved?"
"What kind of a question is that?"
"A question from a mother to her boyson. How could so
picky an eater be such a sponge of love? How could a
person like you have a baby? There’d be no room in your
heart."
"Aren't you pleased about a grandson?"
"I could wait for a Jewish one."
"Why come then?"
"For a candle. A remembrance. Something. Anything.”
Polo stood and shook herself. Mother turned towards the
house. Over her shoulder she said, "There's no entitlement
to love. A child, like the tide, pulls your heart but there are
storms. Always storms." The back door closed behind Polo.

A breeze stirred the grass. My sneakers were soaked. I
felt chilled. The peepers throbbed. I closed the back door
muffling their sound. I toed off my sneakers. Polo's tail
thumped the floor. My bare toes left damp marks on each
stair tread.
Outside the peepers cries rose and fell in waves.
Inside, mother, wound in Chandra's silk shawl, stood at
the foot of our bed. Stephanie lay with her hair fanned out
over my pillow. She held Chandra's dark head against her
pale breast.
Mother sang: “Day is done. Gone the sun.” Her voice
was sweet and low.
Eyes closed, Chandra's mouth curved in a smile. She
took Stephanie's hand; put it on her engorged belly. "Do you
feel it moving?"
"Does it hurt?"
"Not at all. Will it hurt?"
"Of course and for a long time, too.”
“Pain is like love. It never goes away.”


