Her skin is black matte. Her body is broad. Her teeth, opaque white. She keeps screaming, “Lela,
Lela!”

I don’t know her. Who is she?

Lela isn’t me, is it?

Frenzied ocean waves rush toward me, smash into me, attempt to pick me up, carry me away. I
feel hot and sticky. Where am I? My head aches, my eyes are blurry. I glance down at my
tattered shorts, stained shirt, shoeless feet. Mosquitos fly around my head. My mouth is dry.
"Oh please, I scream to the swarm of pests above me. Please, no ..."

It’s always the same, the same nightmare.

I wake up dredged in sweat, clutching the down comforter on the queen-sized bed in our flat
near Oxford. I tell myself I should get up. It’s morning, light is coming through the windows, it’s
time to start the day and yet, I cannot move. My mouth is dry and tastes like salty fish. My
teeth feel like they’re glued together. Edward should be home soon. I have to get out of bed.
He said he’d be home early this morning. He promised. I worry when he’s away for days at a
time, especially when he’s in Africa, Mombasa, covering the political meetings about terrorist
activity. It’s a Catch-22 for young Africans, Edward tells me. As foreign governments warn
tourists to stay away from Mombasa, jobs disappear leading young men into the arms of

Lela
terrorist groups, sex gangs who offer them an income preying on their poverty, resentment
towards the government.

I glance at the clock on my nightstand. It’s almost 8 o’clock. I am still numb with fear and can’t
make the effort to drag my body out of my safe shelter. The dream is so real. Will it ever end?

I hear the key in the door. Edward! He’s home early! I take a deep breath and leap out of bed
rushing into his arms almost knocking him down as he opens the door as his overnight bag falls
to the floor. Tears of relief fill my eyes.

“Elizabeth. Elizabeth, it isn’t the same maddening dream again, is it?” he murmurs, combing
back my long, blond hair with his slender fingers. I melt into his khaki shirt reeking of olive soap,
masculinity. Edward lifts my face and I gaze into the indigo eyes that I know so well, his thick
eyelashes almost unworldly. His thick wavy hair is black as ink and almost long enough to curl
over his collar.

“I know,” Edward says as he tucks me back into his embrace. “Why don’t you come with me to
Mombasa next week? You could shop the spice market, run the beaches, bask in the sun. It
would do you a world of good to get away from this dreary foggy weather.”

Lela
“I don’t know, I’m concerned about the terrorist activity, the unrest you’ve told me about.
Especially since I’m so white, so muzungu, as Africans say. Look at my hair color! I’m always
frantic even when you go there. Maybe that’s why I’m having this frightful nightmare.”

"I’ve never had a problem in Mombasa,” Edward replies. “Of course, you’ll be safe. You just
have to stay out of the vulnerable areas. No one will bother you in broad daylight anyhow.
Think on it,” he urges. “You deserve time away from your studies. You haven’t been away in
ages. The news is always blown out of proportion anyway. Mombasa has a beautiful coastline,
beaches. Tourist travel there from all over the world.”

I hesitate, but only for a moment. It’s been so long since I’ve been on holiday away from
England with Edward, especially to a warm tropical climate. My law studies at Oxford have
dictated my life the last five years. It would be heavenly to leave the bone-chilling fog, the
hectic pace of academia. My dissertation is almost done. I could tie up loose ends when we
return.

We arrive in Mombasa on a Wednesday morning after a nine-hour flight from London. The Moi
International Airport in Mombasa seems worlds away from Heathrow Airport. Heavily armed
soldiers in khaki colored uniforms patrol the hot, humid airport surveying the garrulous
international travelers with critical, invasive eyes. I almost feel guilty when a soldier examines
my passport, take fingerprints and cling to Edward’s arm as we hurriedly move through the
customs process.

Lela

After settling in at our hotel in Mombasa Harbor, Edward kisses me goodbye and leaves to
cover his meetings. I am weary from the long flight, but still anxious to explore the markets, the
beaches. After unpacking and changing into running shorts, I wander through the colorful,
contemporary hotel lobby and ask the concierge to call a taxi to take me to Nyali Beach, the
one Edward suggested. Supposedly, it is one of the most beautiful beaches in Mombasa that’s
dotted with 5-star hotels and populated with international tourists.

“Is Nyali Beach safe to visit alone?” I ask the taxi driver as he graciously opens my door, as I’m
still apprehensive.
“Sawa, sawa”, the driver in jeans and a white starched shirt, replies and laughs. “No problem,
no problem - lots of people, big hotels.”

The hour long ride proves to be a raucous trip over dusty roads plagued with pot holes as we
bump along in his Nissan Advan, a Nissan model foreign to me. Barefooted women plod along
the treacherous roads balancing parcels of food and over-sized plastic water bottles on their
heads. Herds of cows are being driven down the crowded streets by Kenyan herders in loose
dirty robes. Donkeys pull wooden carts laden with vegetables and wares as their masters
thwack the downtrodden animals with sharp branches to speed them along. My mind wants to
compare British to African culture, but it isn’t a fair equation to measure a constitutional
monarch centuries old that once ruled Africa to a fifty-year three-party government that fought
bitterly for its independence from Britain.

Lela

I laugh out in excitement when I finally spy the endless stretch of white beach on the iconic
Indian Ocean from my window. Edward was right, no need to fear this alluring friendly
environment.

“You like? You like, Mees?” the driver exclaims in fragmented English.

“Yes, yes, of course I like,” I reply with a quiet smile. “Very much.”

The palm-studded beach and the warm sun flirt with me, invite me to join them. It doesn’t take
much coaxing.

I hurriedly abandon my sandals, stash them in my backpack and revel in the hot sand filtering
through my toes; my bare feet welcoming the coddling warm blanket. Tourists are sporadically
scattered on the beach as it is late in the afternoon. I breathe in deeply and inhale the ocean
breeze as I adjust my socks, running shoes.

I race to the water’s edge, laughing and taking deep breaths of salty air to clear my lungs of the
stagnant English smog. The sun seems to be shining a spotlight directly on my face. I am high
from the warmth of the sun, the ocean. Then I am sprinting down the beach – my destination: a
sturdy pile of massive rocks almost a mile away. I want to run on the sand until I am out of

Lela
breath, until I experience euphoria to celebrate this beautiful day, Edward’s love, Africa. I am
flying, my feet barely touching the sand. The ocean spray stings my face as the wind picks up.

In the distance, I spot a band of African boys gathered in a circle on the beach. Their colorful
shorts and long, dark bodies are foreign to me but I’m here in Africa, their territory, their
country. They are deep in conversation, then break out into laughter as their heads bob up and
down. I smile.

They disband and seem to be walking in my direction. I slow my pace as the beach is empty of
sun bathers on this stretch of sand. I feel apprehensive but remember what Edward said about
broad daylight. They are laughing and pointing in my direction. I don’t think they mean any
harm, but I am still a bit leery and turn back in the direction of the hotels. I am jogging at first,
then find myself running, then sprinting as I’m almost sure they’re trailing me. Anxiety escalates
in my head and my heart is pounding. Who are they? Why are they following me? Perspiration
is pouring from my body. I turn to see them following my lead sprinting down the beach; their
black, pencil-thin legs getting closer and closer.

“Hey Laa-dy, Hey Laa-dy” they shout out to me. “Come back, Come back. You want a boat ride?
You want a hat for the hot sun? You want some mary-juana? Only one thousand shillings. Come
back…”

Lela
I am running out of breath but coax my body to move at an abnormal speed, begging my
adrenalin to give me super powers, to outrun them but they’re getting closer. I can hear the
soft thumping of their feet in the sand behind me as they get closer and closer. The sand is
suddenly spraying the back of my legs. I can’t run faster. They are upon me, I see only their long
legs and colorful shorts as I’m hurled to the sand.

“How about some sex, Lady? We got plenty of sex,” the tallest boy spats at me. “Yeah - we got
sex, we got plenty of sex,” he repeats with a menacing glee in his eyes, as the others nudge
each other and laugh louder and louder; their pink toenails getting closer and closer to my face.

I hear only the sound of boisterous waves as they rush toward me, smash into me, try to pick
me up, carry me away with the tide. I am hot and sticky. Where am I? My head aches, my eyes
are blurry. I look at my tattered shorts, my soiled shirt, shoeless feet. Mosquitos fly around my
head. My mouth is dry. Oh please, I scream to the swarm of pests above me. Please, no …”

“Lela! Lela!” the voice cries out. “Ondoka hapa! Ondoka hapa!” the voice screams to the loud
scattering of running feet. I see only her opaque white teeth, her black matte skin, her broad
body as she kneels down beside me.

“Lela, Lela,” she cries.
The nightmare is over.


