“Ma, did Aunt Jemima really kill Grandma?”
“No, it was an-gina.”
It sounds to me like she’s saying Aunt Jemima but it’s really hard to understand
her because the sticky fingers of Mrs. Butterworth are clutching her throat from inside
out and isn’t it just like Mama to mumble when she’s got a mouthful. She hasn’t moved
far from the feed trough since Daddy was found lying face down beneath his pancaked
deer stand, amid crumpled sacks of Archer Farms produce. A gut-shot, out of season tenpoint whitetail lay bloated forty yards from Daddy, stinking to high heaven.
In the course of his investigating, Sheriff Hardscrabble mentioned the buck is
having a rough go of it, given today’s economy, and we need to cut Mother Nature some
slack. Then he turns toward the county coroner and whispers if he were hung with a name
like my daddy’s; Hungry Jack, he’d use a spotlight and a high power with some serious
kick to it and poach a tender yearling doe to satisfy his hunger. Hell, he might even risk
sneaking onto the Harris Ranch and cut a choice steer or two from their herd.

Aunt Clarissa waltzes into the kitchen demanding to know if we’d be interested in
ham hocks for dinner. Christ, breakfast isn’t even over and we’re already planning our
next feast. Clarissa’s girlfriend, Dagmar, has been boycotting our meals on account of
being Jewish and our Gentile diet is really off-putting.
Auntie’s been waffling between male and female lovers ever since her Earl
expired while sopping up Log Cabin Syrup at fish camp. A bunch of the boys found him
lying gut down with a whole skillet of Jimmy Dean sausages squealing in the cast iron
pan that had never been washed since the day it was new. It was plain to those fellows,
who were taking regular menthol-scented hits from cigarettes marketed to make them
look cool, that the little porkers in the pan were burned up about their situation and they
just knew they’d get tossed right through one of the holes in the two-seater—why two
people would share an outhouse is beyond my comprehension.
Clarissa’s been shacking with Dagmar right under Mother’s nose, well, actually
out on the driveway in plain view of the neighbors. I don’t know how long it will be
before Mama’s Catholic upbringing kicks in bringing a violent end to her sister’s budding
romance.
I already missed the school bus so I’m probably late as usual for class beings I got
to hoof it to town on my own. As I’m walking past Clarissa’s camper van with the license
plate that spells out the color PURPLE right below the spare tire that has a cover over it
saying VANGINA, all in capital letters so as you can’t miss it, Dagmar sticks her head
out the side door and asks if I need a lift. Right, like it would be another excuse for her to
grope me, just like Uncle Earl did before he up and croaks. Am I suppose to be some sort

Golden Griddle Lament

3

of equal opportunity squeeze for grownups whose libidos are too grand for the small
minds that marshal them through their pathetic little lives?
Dagmar is really pissed Clarissa’s license plate doesn’t spell out RAINBOW.
Give me a break, like Auntie needs to boldly advertise her latest sexual proclivities?
Clarissa told Mama she couldn’t decide between hanging a plate that read red or one that
spelled out blue so she combined the colors and come up with PURPLE. Every time she
thinks about the men in her life she sees red, but living without a man definitely makes
her blue and she’s just taking Dagmar out for a test spin, so to speak. I can’t for the life of
me see either of them motoring around our city, especially in the VANGINA.
Usually after school I walk home with my cousins Sydney and Ethyl. We don’t
take the bus because of the teasing we get from the boys on account of our names. Mine
is Florence Flap-Jack but the guys all call me dough girl. I’ll admit I could stand to lose a
couple of pounds, especially when they tease about rolling me in Bisquick to find the wet
spot—like I’d ever consider putting out for any of them. They refer to Sydney as sticky
fingers and Ethyl is of course the town pump. They earned their reputations as they’ve
been dating since the sixth grade. Ethyl, the uppity one, prefers the backseats of
Chryslers, while Sydney will put out in any vehicle except a pickup truck.
Nearly all week I let Walter Odekirk walk me home because my load of books is
too much to handle and he’s a brawny sort of fellow. Walter doesn’t mind me being a
little overweight because his older brothers told him it was right smart to pick a gal with
more cushion for the pushing. I told him those sick bastards in his family were too
worthless to do anything other than lay around with drool running out the corners of their
mouths. Why is everything always about sex?

Golden Griddle Lament

4

I get home and the VANGINA is nowhere to be seen and Mama is sitting out
front of the TV watching Billy Graham dazzle a stadium full of Christians. She’s inhaling
the last piece of a better-than-sex chocolate confection my aunt laid claim to after she
pushed some scrawny dude off his chair during a gay-lesbian cakewalk.
“Where’d Auntie go?” I ask.
“I run her and the girlfriend off.”
“Why?”
“They’re poor role models. Now go into the kitchen and fix yourself one of those
ham hocks in the Frigidaire—you’ll probably have to nuke it but save room for supper.”
Mama seems intent on scaling the mountain called obesity and she’s dragging me
along. However, I’m clinging to the edge and digging my heels in. I’m planning to make
a run for low-cal Southern Cal, first chance I get.
*


