It’s bad enough that our flight from London to New York has had
to be diverted, but. . . Bangor, Maine? Really?
Somewhere over the Atlantic ocean, a couple of hours
after we had left Heathrow for New York, some idiot jumped up
and started yelling about having a bomb, and then running up
to the cockpit door and pounding on it. “I must fly this plane,”
he kept shouting.
Fortunately, it took about ten seconds for three or four
guys up there in first class to have this guy eating carpet, face
down on the floor with a knee on his neck and both arms
hammer-locked behind him. One of the guys happened to be an
air-marshal, so the nut case was handcuffed and then bumrushed to the back of the plane. The whole thing took maybe
two minutes.
But now our pilot has told us that protocol requires that we
divert to Bangor because it is the closest airport in the USA to
Europe. It also has, he said, an unusually long runway that can
accommodate all sizes of aircraft. Little old Bangor, therefore,
has become the de facto dumping ground for any commercial
flights from the east which have experienced some kind of
mechanical or on-board “incident”
So we have landed, parked and are sitting, mostly in
silence, in our Boeing 765, which seems nearly as big as the
airport terminal itself. We have no idea as to what we’re
supposed to do now, but it would seem logical that once the
crazy guy has been removed from the plane, we will simply
continue on to New York. But logic doesn’t always prevail. An
official sounding voice comes on the intercom and tells us that
since they have no idea whether this guy was acting alone or is
actually part of a bigger threat, we will have to remain on the
plane while each of the passengers-all 253 of us- is carefully
screened.
Long-story-short: Once each of us has been checked,
which takes more than three hours, the delay is over. So I figure,
okay, now off we go to New York. Wrong again. It seems that the
pilots and crew have been on duty longer than the federally
allowable time and that it will be the following morning before a
new crew can be found to finish our flight. Well, not so bad, I
reason. I’ll just catch another regularly scheduled plane to New
York and be there before midnight. To my surprise, however,
when I check on my cell phone, I find that the Bangor Airport
not only has no more flights out to New York that evening, but,
in fact, has no more flights out that evening to anywhere.
There’s not a seat to be found in the absurdly small
waiting area, so now I’m standing here wondering what kind of
parallel universe I have been dropped into. As I’m doing this, I

3

notice a sign saying, “Need Accommodations?” being held by a
middle-aged woman. I walk toward her, and It turns out that the
sign-carrier is a kind of triage person, matching up needy
travelers with someone from the group near her.

When I am

able to get her attention, I ask about finding someplace to stay
that night. She smiles, looks at a list on her clipboard and calls
out “Beth Crawford!” I turn to see a rather plain-looking woman
emerge from the crowd.

She’s of average height and build,

probably middle forties and dressed in what I imagine is winterin-Bangor-traditional: Jeans, warm-looking boots, and a heavy,
hooded, black parka. “Welcome to Bangor.” She smiles, greyblue eyes sparkling, and offers a hand. “I’m Beth Crawford, and
I’d like to invite you to stay with us tonight.”
A bit taken aback by this unexpected offer, I mumble,
“Well, thanks . . . I don’t know . . . I mean, like at your house?”
“Of course, at our house. With my husband and two
children and me.” Seeing my hesitation, she goes on. “This
happens so often . . .” and she gestures in the direction of the
planes. “So we’ve formed a Bangor Hospitality Group. We offer
food and drink and sometimes even lodging to people when
they are stranded here. Whenever we hear about something like
what happened to you today, we mobilize our membership and
head for the airport.” She shrugs and smiles “So . . . here I am.”

4

I “Well . . . sure,” I say as I offer my hand. “My name’s
Arthur Bowen . . . and I thank you so much. You’re really a lifesaver.”
Pulling my small carry-on suitcase behind me, I follow Beth
out to the open-air parking area. She heads for an older,
maroon SUV with a man sitting behind the wheel, and as we
approach, the van door opens, and he climbs out. He’s a big
guy, maybe six-two and over two hundred pounds I’m sure. His
dark, military cropped hair has receded somewhat and shows a
few sprinkles of grey.

His deep-set, squinty eyes lie under

unusually bushy eyebrows and a three day growth of beard
completes the “Downeast” stereotype. He goes straight for my
suitcase. “Here’ya go . . . let me take that,” he says, so I let go
of the pull handle and watch as he opens the back door and
tosses my bag unceremoniously onto the seat.
“This is my husband, Floyd,” Beth offers, and he and I
shake hands before I climb into the back seat with my suitcase
while the two of them take their places in front. Beth and I trade
a few pleasantries about the troubles on the plane and the
governmental bureaucracy that makes it impossible for me to
get to New York that night, and then we travel on in silence. It’s
not hard to tell, however, that Beth Crawford is far more excited
about this idea of accepting a stranger into her home than is
her husband.

5

It’s only a few minutes before we turn into one end of a
horseshoe-shaped, frost-heaved, asphalt driveway. Floyd pulls
to a stop next to the front door of a modest ranch-style home,
and we all pile out, me dragging my suitcase behind me. Just as
we get to the door, it opens, and framed in the doorway are two
kids, one boy and one girl. Once we’ve all made our way inside,
Beth takes care of the introductions. “This is our daughter,
Hannah, she’s twelve . . . and this is Floyd junior, but we call
him by his middle name, Barkley. He’s fourteen.” There is a
momentary silence, and then she continues. “And, children, this
is Mr. Bowen”
To my surprise, the father calls out “Manners!”, and as if
on cue, here comes Hannah toward me. Someday she is going
to be a pretty woman, but for now her thin frame, pale
complexion and straight, just-below-the ears brown hair make
her much plainer than she needs to be. For the most part, her
eyes have been downcast, but as she moves towards me, she
looks up, and her emerald eyes move rapidly back and forth,
making her look both fearful and vulnerable. She sticks out her
hand but only offers her fingertips. I take them, but she doesn’t
squeeze. Instead she bows her head slightly and offers up a
dainty, but perfectly executed curtsey. “Pleased to meet you,
Mr. Bowen,” she says in a whispery voice, and pulls back her
hand and slips back to her place next to her brother.

6

Next is Barkley, who approaches me and offers his full
hand. I take it, and as he squeezes it firmly, he, too, bows his
head and literally clicks his heels together. “Pleased to meet
you, Mr. Bowen,” he repeats in a quiet monotone. Then he looks
up, withdraws his hand, and silently rejoins his sister. Both
Barkley and his sister are dressed in what I assume is some
form of school uniform: khaki skirt/pants, white dress shirt, blue
blazer with an indistinguishable crest on its pocket and clean,
white Nike-type sneakers.
There is another uncomfortable moment of silence until
Mrs. Crawford claps her hands twice and says, “Well, Arthur, I
imagine you’re starving after such a long day. So let me see
what I can do about some dinner for us.” As if released from a
time-out, the two children disappear almost unnoticed, while
Floyd goes to a wet bar at the far end of the living room and
begins making a drink.

“Would you care for something to

drink?” Mrs. Crawford asks in the absence of any offer from her
husband.
“No thanks. I’m all set. But I appreciate the offer.”
“Well, let me get going with dinner. It’ll just be a few
minutes.” Mrs. Crawford hurries out of the room as Floyd
Crawford finds his way to a leather-covered lounge chair with a
drink-holder conveniently located in one of the arm rests.
Settling himself, he picks up the TV remote and brings up the
local news station; I sit down on a worn, straight-back arm chair

7

separated from Floyd’s by a round, well-polished end table. I sit
stoically, watching the news, some of which is actually of
interest to me since there is much ado about our diverted plane.
I make a couple of brief comments, but Floyd is unresponsive,
so I retreat, once again, into silence. The large living room we’re
in is just to the left of the entrance hall with a dining room that
leads into a kitchen to the right. At the far end of the entrance
area is an arched opening with what appears to be a parallel
hallway beyond it which, I presume, is the way to the bedroom
areas. The singular impression I get is that there is a drab, worn
feeling to what could be, with a little work, a rather nice, much
more attractive home.
True to her word, after about twenty minutes, Beth calls
out that dinner is ready. I stand up and head for the dining
room, and when I get there, am surprised to find Hannah and
Barkley standing motionless behind their chairs across from
each other on the side of the table. Beth directs me to a chair at
the side of the table next to Barkley, and I dutifully take up my
spot behind it.
After an another awkward period of silence while we all
stand just so, Floyd Crawford marches into the room, stops
briefly behind his chair, and then barks, “Be seated!” We all do
as instructed and there follows a flurry of napkin-in-the-lap
activity, and then another silence. Floyd looks around the table,
seemingly intent on making sure everything is in its proper

8

place and that his wife and children are turned out to his
approval. Then, with an unexpected friendliness in his voice, he
says heartily, “Well, how about some chow here? Looks great,
Beth.” All the food is arranged on platters in front of Floyd with
five plates stacked nearby. It is his role to fill each plate and
then pass it by name to one of us: “This is for our guest, Mr.
Bowen.” “This is for mother. . . .”
Conversation at dinner is, at first, led by Beth in what
seems to be an often-used script. Questions are directed equally
toward the two children at first, eliciting short, polite answers
from them, and then a question or two for Floyd. This seems to
be the signal for him to take over the conversational lead, which
he does with the passion of an evangelical preacher. His
attitudes and opinions are conservative in the extreme, and he
has the annoying habit of ending his rants by asking me, “Now
isn’t that right, Mr. Bowen.” In my mind most of it is extremist
garbage, but I’m not willing to engage in what would be
hopeless attempts at changing his mind.
When Beth goes to the kitchen to make coffee, the
children, as if on cue again, ask, “May I please be excused, sir?”
When permission is granted by a slight nod of Floyd’s head,
they fold their napkins carefully, stand up, collect their dishes
and take them into the kitchen. Then Barkley and Hannah again
disappear quietly.
scripted.

Again, everything seems so strangely

9

We take our coffee into the living room in relative silence
since Floyd has, once again, turned on the TV and. Beth makes
no attempt at conversation until after the second half-hour show
is over. She stands, goes about the room collecting coffee cups
and utensils and announces, “Well, it’s off to bed for me. Mr.
Bowen, the couch over there folds out into a nice bed . . . and
it’s all made up. So you enjoy the rest of your evening.”
I watch TV with Floyd for another half-an-hour or so, and
then, as noisily as possible, I wrestle open the bed, sit on it, and
begin removing my shoes and socks. “Think I’ll turn in,” I say
with a sigh. “It’s been one hell of a day.” When that produces
another non-response from Floyd, I walk in my bare feet over to
his chair and say, “Hey, Floyd. Can you tell me where the
bathroom is?”
“Sure. Sure.” He says without looking up. “Go through the
arch at the end of the foyer, turn right down the hall and it’s the
door at the end.” No acknowledgement of my go-to-bed
intentions, so I head down the hallway toward the bathroom,
noticing on the way Hannah in her open-door room on the right,
and Barkley in the one just across the hall. Both seem busily
engaged with homework, so I say nothing to them and walk on
toward the bathroom. I wash up a bit, brush my teeth, and then
head back to the living room. I’m dismayed to find that Floyd is
still engrossed in whatever is on TV, but I soldier on, stripping
down to my boxers and T-shirt and then lying noisily down onto

10

the bed. To my surprise, Floyd calls out, “Sleep well, Mr.
Bowen.”
“Um…about how long do you think you’ll…” I begin.
“Good to have you here,” Floyd monotones, and I realize
now that I am yet another victim of TV-Gape. Defeated, I climb
into the bed, try to find a spot where I’m not lying on something
metal, and cover my ears with the two pillows. Exhausted, I fall
asleep almost immediately.
Next thing I know, something wakes me up. The lights are
all off, and when I look at my watch, it says that it’s a little after
two o’clock in the morning. I don’t know what it was that woke
me up, so, I start to settle back down. But then I hear something
that makes me stop moving and listen more carefully. From
down the part of the hallway that ends at the bathroom, I’m
sure I hear someone crying. I’m wondering if something’s wrong
with one of the kids, so I get out of bed and walk to that
archway that leads from the foyer to the interior hallway. It’s
quiet now, and I wait a little while before deciding that nothing’s
wrong. But just as I turn to head back to my bed, I hear
distinctly a tiny voice of desperation calling out, “No, Daddy.
No!” then some muffled crying followed by, “Please, Daddy . . .
please don’t!” And then there is a period of silence as I stand
there knowing full well what’s going on, yet frozen in place with
uncertainty as to what I should do.

11

Before I can figure something out, however, the door to the
room where the noise was coming from opens, and I can hear
more clearly now Hannah’s quiet sobbing. Of more concern,
however, is that Floyd Crawford emerges quickly from the room
and, I think, spots me before I can fully duck back into the foyer.
I do turn and hustle back to my bed, and when he comes around
the corner into the room, I’m busy faking like I had just
awakened. Floyd walks over to my bed, turns on the light next
to it and says “Sorry about the disturbance.” He’s wearing
sweat pants and a ribbed undershirt, and his face is flushed and
angry looking.
“What’s wrong?” I lie. “Everything okay?”
“Kids . . . ” he says. “Hannah has these nightmares every
now and then and it takes me or Beth to go down there to calm
her down. No big deal. Sorry to wake you up.” He bends down
and reaches for the light, but pauses and stares at me for what
seems to be a long time before he turns it off and begins
making his way back toward the hallway.
I guess I doze off occasionally, but I don’t really sleep very
well any more. Finally, though, around six o’clock, I begin to
hear moving around at both ends of the hallway. Then Beth
Crawford arrives, and begins making kitchen noises, which soon
produce the fresh aroma of coffee brewing and breakfast-inprogress. I get up and pull on the same clothes I was wearing
the previous day, use the half-bath off the living room that Floyd

12

must have forgotten about the night before, and then join Beth
in the kitchen. During the sleepless hours that morning, I had
finally determined that I would talk to her about what had
apparently happened between Hannah and her father. This
appears to be a good opportunity. We exchange pleasantries for
a bit, and then, when there is a lull, I say, “Beth, I really need to
talk to you about something that happened last night.
Something woke me up and . . .”
“Good morning, everyone!” Floyd bursts into the kitchen,
arms spread wide. “What a beautiful day, right, Mr. Bowen?”
Before I can answer, the two children materialize, dressed
once more in their school uniforms. They chorus a soft “Good
morning” and take their places at the table. Floyd joins them
and motions me to the seat next to Barkley, once again directly
across from Hannah. There is juice and cold cereal already on
the table at the children’s places, and they busy themselves in
silence, pouring small amounts of milk onto their cereal and
sprinkling it with pieces of cut-up fresh fruit from a bowl on the
table.
Beth calls from the kitchen, “Coffee, Mr. Bowen?”
“Yes, please,” I answer, noting that Floyd’s place is already
set with a steaming mug of his own, a toasted English Muffin,
buttered and jellied, and a dish of the fresh fruit all to himself.

13

We sit quietly, listening to the occasional tap of a spoon on
one of the kid’s ceramic cereal dishes. After a minute or so, my
coffee arrives along with an English Muffin, also buttered and
jellied. Both forearms on the table, Floyd alternately takes a bite
of his muffin and then a sip of his coffee; he looks, without
moving his head, first at me, then at Barkley, and then his eyes
settle on Hannah and remain there as he speaks. “So! How’s
everybody doing this morning? Sleep well, Barkley?”
“Yes, sir.” The boy replies.
Still looking at the girl ”. . . and you Mr. Bowen?”
“Well, other than the . . .”
He cuts me off. “And what about you, young lady?” And he
leans in toward Hannah from his place at the head of the table.
Hannah stares down at her folded hands in her lap and
whispers, “Yes, sir.”
“Sorry. Couldn’t hear that,” Floyd snaps at her. “And sit
up!”
Hannah rights herself and says in a clear monotone, “Yes,
sir.”
“Well, that’s just fine.” Then he leans back and stretches a
bit. “Must be the cold weather, but I don’t remember sleeping

14

that well in a long time. “Just love this kind of weather . . . right,
Mr. Bowen?”
I could feel the fury building inside me, but I still manage
a, “Not really…” just before Floyd picks up his coffee mug, gets
up and heads toward the kitchen. I look over at Hannah and am
shocked to see the girl sitting with the palms of her hands
pressed together in front of her chest, fingers pointed upwards
in a prayerful gesture. Looking directly at me, she mouths the
words, “Please, help me…” but then looks away quickly and
picks up her spoon, and I note that Floyd has turned and is
heading back to the table.
Beth joins us with just a cup of coffee, and the remaining
few minutes of breakfast are spent with an endless stream of
inane questions and comments directed at the children:
homework done? Music lesson reminders; clean gym clothes
packed? Barkely and Hannah patiently answer “Yes, m’am” “No,
m’am” “thank you, m’am.” Then, when the interrogation is
over, there is a chorus of, “May I be excused, please?” and off
Barkley and Hannah go. Beth gets up and begins clearing the
table, and I start to do the same, but Floyd makes a “sit down”
gesture toward me and says quietly, “Woman’s work,” followed
by a conspiratorial wink.
I can’t get out of this place fast enough, so even though
it’s not true, I say to Floyd, “Well, I got a call on my cell this

15

morning from the airline saying I should be back at the airport
by nine o’clock. So if you could call me a taxi…”
“Nonsense,” says Floyd. “Airports right on my way to work,
so . . . save you the cab fare.” And he gets up quickly, making
any further protest on my part impossible.
Before they leave, both children give me a farewell
handshake, not unlike the welcoming one the night before. The
only difference this morning is the pleading glance Hannah
gives me during her curtsey. I can see that there are tears in her
eyes.
A few minutes later, Floyd and I are heading toward the
airport in his aging Toyota Corrola. At first we ride in silence, but
I can’t seem to let go of the look on that little girl’s face this
morning. “Floyd,” I finally say. “You know I should be calling the
cops about you.”
He feigns surprise.

“About me? Why, what in the world

would make you say that.”
“You know exactly what I’m talking about. Last night . . .
with your daughter . . . with Hannah.”
“Yeah?” he says with a maddening innocence. “What about
it? She has these nightmares, and Beth or me has to go calm
her down. Happens all the time.”

16

“Cut the crap, Floyd,” I snap. “I heard everything . . . she
was yelling at you to please stop and calling out ‘No, daddy,
no!’ Then there was a lot of crying and…”
All of a sudden, Floyd is leaning in my direction patting my
thigh and smiling at me. “My word against yours, pal” he says.
“What?” I reply.
“My word against yours, Arthur. Suppose what you’re
thinking is really what’s happening? In the first place, it’s none
of your business how I raise my kids. And if you do go talking to
people about what you think you heard,

well . . . it’ll be a

stranger’s word against mine . . .” He puts his hand back on the
steering wheel and shakes his head and lets out an exaggerated
sigh. “I guess they’re right about ‘no good deed going
unpunished.’.” Trying to make himself the victim, but that
doesn’t stop me. “Have you thought about how badly you’re
hurting your daughter . . . probably for the rest of her life . . .
what kind of father are you anyway?”
“Probably not a very good one to somebody like you.” He
turns toward me with a strangely vicious look on his face. “And
you missed the real show, pal. Should be there when I get
Barkley to mess around with his sister.” And he grins in
satisfaction as we pull up to the passenger departure zone at
the small airport. I open the door and climb out, push the
passenger seat back forward and reach for my carry-on.

But

17

before I close the door, I hiss at him, “You bastard!” I lean
further into the car and yell, “You’re an evil son-of-a-bitch,
Crawford. Sick . . . really sick.” And with the door still open, he
calls out in response, “Aren’t we all, Arthur? Aren’t we all?,” and
I retreat as he pulls away from the curb, the door slamming shut
with the momentum of the car.
Both furious and frustrated, I stand at the curb for a few
moments and then snatch up the handle to my bag and wheel it
into the airport. It turns out that I actually have two hours to
wait before our flight to New York, so after I’ve checked in, I
have little to do in the shamelessly unappealing Bangor Airport.
I find myself too restless to be still for any length of time, so I
wander into the one and only food place, buy a cup of black
coffee and a sweet roll and retreat to a table next to the
window. The coffee is lukewarm and tasteless; the cardboardlike pastry, inedible.
The first forty-five years of my life have been blessedly
free from serious crises or angst. Little things; ups and downs;
good times; not-so-good-times, of course. But what I’ve
experienced in the last twelve hours doesn’t compute in my
orderly, uncomplicated world. I want to shove it all away . . .
somehow hit the rewind button and erase the sounds and
images of last night from my being. Some part of me feels
obliged to “do something.” But I don’t want to. I don’t want to
bring something like this into my life, to involve myself, to go

18

through all that I would have to go through should I decide to
pursue the violation of that sweet, helpless little girl. But I do go
so far as to get up and look for a phone book. Bangor Airport is
still in the dark ages of electronics, so there actually is a phone
booth with a still-intact directory. I look up Floyd and Beth’s
listing and jot down their address and phone number. Then I
begin rummaging through the yellow pages, looking for some
child-services organization. I write down the name of the official,
government office (DCFS), and then, for some reason, I also
write down the number of the Bangor police department.
Armed with this information, I begin to feel a little better,
relieved that, at least in my mind, I’m no longer alone with this
problem and can hand it off any time. But I don’t make any
calls. It’s too close to boarding time to get involved now, I tell
myself, so I’ll deal with this later. . . when I get to New York. I
fold the piece of paper and tuck it into my shirt pocket as I head
for the security check-point.
By my watch, it’s exactly 11:42 a.m. when we lift off from
the Bangor runway. Surrounded by a couple of hundred other
New York-bound people, I begin to feel more and more in my
element. I’m back in a world that I understand; in a world in
which I am comfortable; in a world where problems aren’t
insurmountable and life is mostly predictable. A voice from the
flight deck assures us that there will be no more detours, so the

19

mood is light and the people aboard are happy to be on their
way once again. An hour and thirty-five minutes to JFK!
All should be right with the world, but I’m angry that this
isn’t the case with me. Hannah’s plaintive looks this morning
still haunt me. When I close my eyes, those visions take over. I
try to do what I had told my children to do when they were
young and sad about something. “Think happy thoughts,” I
would tell them. “Remember our trip to Disney World? And
when you got to go to grandma and grandpa’s farm for a
week?” That kind of thing. But it doesn’t help me at all.
So I try the next best thing: I begin to distance myself
mentally from the ugliness of Bangor. I remind myself that, with
each mile the plane flies, I am getting further and further away
from all of that. The comforting hum of the jet engines helps me
visualize Bangor and the Crawford home growing smaller and
smaller with each minute, like a camera zooming out from a
close-up. Soon it is miniscule, and then it disappears altogether,
down some invisible, dark hole. Buoyed by that process, I sit up
a little straighter and begin to think of the things that lie ahead
of me in New York-my own little world with its own aura of
importance. Work to do; family and friends; a daughter’s
graduation soon; competing in the country club’s annual
racquetball championship; Broadway tickets. What does Bangor,
Maine have to do with any of that? What right does it have
intruding into my life like this?

“You can’t save ‘em all” a

20

colleague once told me during my brief career as a bleedingheart school counselor. I nod to myself in approval as I recall
that admonition.
I reach into my shirt pocket and pull out the list I had made
in the Bangor Airport. Without looking at it, I tear it into several
pieces and shove them into my empty plastic drink glass. Now I
begin to feel at peace. Safely content with the bright future
ahead of me.
What the hell, I think.
anyway.

I wasn’t supposed to be in Bangor

21


