I shouldn’t be driving. Not now.

It’s been six hours since I got the call, yet it felt like six minutes filled with packing, phone calls, texts,
uneaten food, questions, blank stares, chairs, waiting, car rentals, driving, and memories.

Memories distract you with details, like what their eyes looked like rather than what they were
looking at, or the way they talked rather than meaning behind their words. You care more for the
players than the play; remembering entrances or exits rather than their performance.

The white noise of the road hisses under my tires, skipping at concrete intervals or popping on the
sun-soaked black-top, keeping my ears filled with personal sounds of reality, grounding me with the bass
of engine hum, the static of a remnant radio signal, and the whistle from a rear window not quite
closed.

I try to remember my father and all I can think about is the grey in his hair. Even as a boy I remember
my father had grey temples… and the way the stems of his heavy glasses tucked his hair back behind his
ears, but if I try to remember my father as a whole? As the man who raised me? As the man who I
debated with, then argued with, then gave up on? Instead of him, I start to remember the words he said
rather than the things he was saying. The words I said back rather than what I was trying to tell him. The
words we choose to use eventually use us and define us by what we said or didn’t say. Words I could
have used, should have used, but didn’t.

Other people argue, butt heads, have differences of fucking opinion and they can get along, why
couldn’t we? What makes us so damn unique? Made us…

Just Outside Jim Thorpe 2
I run the fluid and wipers, to clean the window, to get a better view. I follow the drops as they the
wind presses them flat and pushes them out of frame.

I want to forgive him, myself, the world, but I continue to pull memories from out of the incandescent
kiln of my past. Malformed and ugly moments of black coal seething into fiery reds and yellows that
burn in my mind until their grey faded embers crumble into the dust of exhaustion that fills the
emptiness of the car and its hissing tires.

That’s not how I want to remember him. That’s not who he will be for me.

I close the kiln. I watch the road. I grip the wheel. I pass a car. The road ahead empties as headlights
dim behind me.

Once again I remember his face, focusing on the details in order to distance my attention from the
whole of my own prejudice. The grey temples, the heavy glasses, the way they enlarged his eyes,
magnifying them as they looked down on me from a distance.

The next time I’ll see that face it will be a dead face among flowers, coffins, pillows, a nice suit, and his
grey hair, combed, thinning, fresh cut above shoulders that are spotless of dandruff. And his eyes,
lacking the protection of those heavy glasses, appearing small and diminished, sunken, exposed,
unrecognizable, and closed.

Just Outside Jim Thorpe 3
My eyes follow the road too closely. I can’t tear them from the center lines, dashed, dotted, telegraph
hypnosis. If I lifted them from the pattern, I don’t know where they would land, and I just want this trip
to be over, to be home. I grip the wheel and drive.

A memory surfaces faint and faded like a photograph bleached in the sun; now lying neglected, having
fallen during a rush to get out of a home on a morning some nine years previous, never bothering to be
saved from rotting among the rushes.

“Here, let me show you.”

His hands are huge, enormous, like tarantulas gripping bananas, covered in coarse hair and rough
calluses. Skin stained with sun and scoured with earth. Nails cracked like flint, bitten short to stubs.
These hard hands engulf my small pink clumsy things into an awkward grip of a golf putter. Alien. I’ve
never held anything like this. I don’t like it.

“Thumbs do…thumbs… here, thumbs down, like… Fonzie, right, only up-side down? Look. Ayyyyy! Say
it. Ayyyyy!”

I’m cool, “Ayyyyy!”

“Right, now point them down, like, here…” again his hands fold over mine, holding the club in wristbending-weirdness. I try to look over them, through his arms that drape around my shoulders and that
press my ears flat. “See? Left first, thumb pointed down. Right? No. On top. Stop fighting.”

Just Outside Jim Thorpe 4
It feels weird.

“You want to do it right, or do you want to go home?”

“Hey, buddy. Let us play through, will ya? Go on the practice green, for Pete’s sake!”

I try to look to see who’s talking, and catch a glimpse of a line forming behind us just before Dad’s
forearms squeezes me back in place.

“Don’t pay them mind. Now, just keep your thumbs down, right? Got it?”

His hands release me and his weight moves away following his shadow as he steps off the green.

I lift my eyes from my grip. The Wildwood Pier Put-Put Arcade is crowded. Seagulls swing, shipwrecks
sway, clams snap, octopi do what octopi do, and a whale swallows a ball next to my green causing a kid
to cry in frustration. All around a summer crowd pushing for fun. I look behind me at the kids and
parents waiting, waiting, waiting for me to swing, and fail. I suck.

“Come on! Let us play through, huh?”

“Sean, keep your eyes on the hole, not on them.” Dad stands in front of the lighthouse and holds his
own putter out, pointing it toward the left of three mouse holes. “Just aim it here. Aim it like I showed
you. Grip it like I showed you. Hit it gentle, like I showed you. Ready?”

Just Outside Jim Thorpe 5
I nod. I close my eyes.

“Open your eyes or you won’t hit damn anything.”

I open my eyes. I breath, I aim, I grip, I swing, gentle, like he showed me.

My father watches as my ball rolls toward the hole. He is leaning on his putter now, pride in his eyes
behind those heavy glasses that tuck the grey behind his ears.

I don’t remember pulling over, but I did.

I’m half-way home, somewhere in the Pennsylvania moraine, just outside Jim Thorpe.

I shouldn’t be driving, not now.


