With all this fuss about jibs, I decided to pay a visit to the traditional Jib Cutter District
on Grand Street on the upper middle part of the lower east side of New York City. There
I met a young fellow who called himself Manny the Blade.
“Pardon me young man,” I hallooed. “Could you kindly direct me to the nearest jibcutter?”
“Who wants to know?” the “Blade” replied sourly. By this time a coterie of young
toughs had gathered, all glaring at me in clear disapproval.
The old hairy eyeball, I thought.
One of them was an enormous six foot eight giant with a swastika tattooed on his
forehead holding what appeared to be a sawed-off pitchfork. He began calling me a series
of highly unflattering names.
Rather than reply directly, I decided to text him back. Sticks and stones may break
my bones. Typing hurriedly, I misspelled the word “stones” as “scones.”
“The hell’s wrong with you?” thundered the giant, aghast at my error.
A moment later I was running for my life. I finally got away, but only after buying
each of them a bento box lunch, revealing the last four digits of my social security
number, and copying out the secret ingredient list for my famous “tangy cole slaw”
recipe.
When I got to my car I realized three things. The first was I’d gotten a $120 ticket for
parking in a spot that was reserved for Russian dumpling food trucks. The second was
that a mother cat had climbed into the back seat of my car and given birth to six adorable,
multi-hued kittens. The third was about Manny and his friends.

1

They were clearly trying to hide something.
2. A Very Merganser Kind of Day
“The old hairy eyeball?” my girlfriend Brenda said to me when I got back.
“No kidding,” I nodded. “Think they were serious?”
“Is the Pope Catholic?” she said.
“Does a Portuguese man ’o’ war negotiate?” I said.
“Is no man an island?” she said.
We went on like this for some time, then finally air-kissed, somewhat passionately,
for about 90 seconds. At which point, when I came up for oxygen, I exclaimed:
“You’re not Brenda!”
To which she replied: “You’re not the Duke of Cornwall!”
I admitted it was true. I was no duke, but then what about her? If she wasn’t the real
Brenda, then who was?
As I began to ponder that question I realized the swastika-faced fellow had returned,
now having attached himself to the chandelier above and was swinging toward us in a
menacing trajectory with a demonic grin on his face that I can only describe as
“demonic.”
“Duck!” I cried.
At this point a mallard, merganser, or some similar waterfowl, perhaps a sandhill
crane, came hurtling through the open window at frightening speed, dislodging the giant
intruder from the chandelier in one spectacular fell-swoop heap, his half-hitch pitchfork
clattering on the floor like a six-dollar Fish’n Eddy plastic serving plate.
Instead of continuing to threaten us, the now-chastened Aryan immediately burst into
tears.
“I’m so sorry,” he said, peeling off his rubberized Nazi giant costume to reveal a
rather modest and pleasant-faced Doody Kravitz of a young man.
3. The Jib is Up
“Care for a kitten?” I asked the former fascist, holding up one of the adorable calicos that
had been delivered in the back seat of my sedan.

2

“Thank you,” sniffed the not-so-giant, holding the feline tenderly to his breast.
We (Brenda, the former giant, and myself) sat at a rather rickety table drinking mudthick espresso and playing scrabble, communicating via the words we spelled, with
double and triple word scores substituting for emotional exuberance.
JIB_ERISH? I tiled, using a bastardized spelling and a blank for the second “B,”
scoring a cool 66, including a bonus 50 for using all seven letters.
We all had a good chuckle over that one. But I still had the impression that things
here were not on the up and up. If the jib-cutters didn’t care for the cut of a man’s jib,
why not just say so? Why force a man to buy them lunch and disclose treasured family
recipes? Why give out parking tickets in a No Dumpling Zone?
It just didn’t make sense.
At this point Brenda swung open her dressing gown to reveal (a) an incredibly
attractive charmeuse shift in charcoal grey with pleats, a plunging backline and sort of a
puffy, flared collar, and (b) she was not the woman I thought she was.
“Brenda?” I croaked.
“You never understood me,” Brenda said, her face the epitome of epitomes, so fierce
and focused that I likened it to a rare zirconium crystal. “You never even bothered to find
out who the real me was.”
“She’s right,” opined the ex-Nazi, and as I pondered how to respond I temporarily
lost consciousness, cold-cocked, so to speak, by the truth itself, aided by a stiff left
uppercut from Brenda. I descended down a long black hole at the end of which was
another long black hole followed by a series of short black holes intermittently shooting
out the sides of the original black hole.
4. When I Awoke
It all made sense. As she peeled off my rubber mask I realized it was all an elaborate
hoax perpetrated upon us by the exigencies of today’s fast-paced digitized world.
I was actually Brenda.
“You mean I’m actually you and you’re actually me?” Brenda said, when she realized
that the “Switch” had taken place.
“Is a rose a rose by any other name?” I said.

3

“I don’t know,” she countered. “Does a bird in the hand count for two in the bush?”
“Possibly,” I maintained, depending on the bird, the bush, who’s buried in Grant’s
tomb, and whether a man who defends himself in open court has a fool for a lawyer.
“Duck!” she cried once again, but determined as I was not to fall for same gambit
twice in the same election cycle, I nevertheless reflexively dropped to the floor only to
intersect with the ongoing flight pattern of a a suspiciously familiar waterfowl with rather
devastating results.
“KA-POW!” as they used to say in the Sunday funnies using super-bold 64-point type
and a whole bushel load of swirly stars and jagged exclamation points.
When I awoke the bird was gone and I was incoherently mansplaining to Brenda or
whoever she now claimed to be the intricacies of the classic Fool me once, shame on you,
Fool me twice, shame on me framework. She wasn’t buying. In fact, she wasn’t buying
anything except a loaf of sourdough rye and some kalamata olives, as we’d now
wandered into a nearby gourmet market to buy provisions for brunch.
What can I tell you? Sometimes things in this crazy, cracked-up world just don’t
make all that much sense until you realize they actually make sense.
As we approached the check-out line we caught a glimpse of ourselves in a square of
reflecting glass.
“There’s something about the cut of that fellow’s jib,” Brenda noted.
Couldn’t have said it better myself.

4


