Woefully attired in a lead-grey, synthetic wool suit, the value of which “not to exceed
twenty dollars” (as delineated in official release papers now pocketed snug against his heart),
said suit manufactured by marginally skilled inmates at Fort Leavenworth Penitentiary, Rand
stood for a salient moment in his dress shoes—the only vestige of Government Issue
retained—astride the freshly repainted center line of a two-lane, rural, highway extending
across an infinity of cornfield Kansas flatland, and cracked a wide-as-sin grin of relief,
release and bare-tooth joy.
His temporary hitchhike companion, a Canuck by way of New England, named
Derosiers—Rand never knew his Christian name though they had been yoked together for the
past six weeks on permanent kitchen duty from five a.m. to seven p.m. in the stainless steel
yet fetid confines of the stockade mess hall—was poised in the opposite direction boldly
flashing the middle fingers of both hands while cursing in English, Joual and recently
acquired though not quite mastered Ebonics at the two retreating, enjeeped MPs who had
upon their own initiative feloniously deposited the young ex-prisoners just outside the gates
of the base all the while laughing and projectile spitting that Ya’ll can find your own fucking
way to the airport, faggots! No doubt still chortling derisively and crowing over their own
cleverness and devotion to justice, the former unemployable hillbillies were speeding to the
comforting embrace of the noncommissioned officers club where for the next three hours (the


time it should have taken them to drive to Topeka Airport and back) they could slake beer
from tall, condensating cans, garble salted monkey nuts and enthusiastically bicker over
whatever mindless sports event was being broadcast from the black-and-white television
screen above the ever-busy bar.
When the jeep was finally out of sight, Derosiers heeled round and glared at Rand as
if his companion had let him down by not abetting his indignant but futile attack at the tail
end of the ignobly peopled jeep, but Rand was incapacitated with joy over the now very real
fact that he was finally a free individual in sole control of his own day-to-day destiny. Not
only was he free of prison (officially, a rehabilitation facility), but through the magnanimity
of the usually cranky, unaccommodating gods he had been kicked clear of the armed forces
altogether. Derosiers could rant and spume about the criminality and fundamental shitheeledness of the army in general (and the two piss-ant MPs in particular) but Rand
possessed among his papers in the aforementioned inside coat pocket a document of the rarest
value and international cachet: a discharge from the United States Army, the same
organization of mostly mindless robots and beefwits that at the moment was engaged in
barely disguised genocide in Southeast Asia. But this was no commonplace discharge. This
was an official declaration, albeit printed on the cheapest paper available in the western
hemisphere, stating in standard military nounspeak that in addition to being judged no longer
useful to the army, he had been deemed Undesirable, a word that if uttered by a potential
love interest would cause mental discomfort if not gastrointestinal pain but when employed in
this context was most welcome to read, hear or speak, a word in fact to slowly savor along
the surface of the tongue: an Undesirable Discharge!
The 500 other so-called non-violent prisoners of that season’s rehabilitation crop (loosely
classified as ‘political’ and culled from otherwise violent army prison populations across the

Ship Out on the Foam

3

country), having been successfully re-brainwashed into thinking they were to once again play
a vital role in the US government’s altruistic effort to make the world (whether it wanted it or
not) safe for democracy—and in the present case, free of perceived domino-effect
communism—were all of them, save the five like-minded souls who had with Rand
comprehensively resisted, about to be spirited back into the indifferent arms of the regular
army, no questions asked, and then, in most cases, quickly propelled into the enthusiastic if
ever-expunging embrace of the Viet Cong.
Without another word the two poorly clad ex-incarcerates, one behind the other,
confidently thrust well-scratched, lacerated, bruised and KP-dishwater-sulcated thumbs into
the steady Midwest prairie wind in the direction of Topeka until soon enough a civicallyminded, patriotic soul (figuring any hitch-hikers outside the base gates to be worthy soldiers
on a three-day pass) slowed to pick them up and the two eventually arrived at the airport in
time for the departure of their flights home: Desrosier to still snowbound New Hampshire,
Rand to always sunny but at the moment brisk southern Virginia.
Three hours later and still in a happy daze, Rand emerged from the Newport News
airport and tossed his small bag of books and sundries into the back seat of a taxi—he had
accumulated some little money for all those months at hard labor—and rode without
nostalgia to the neighborhood of Hilton and a mock colonial (with stylish camping trailer
permanently parked in the drive) that was his family home, the unlocked front door of which
he opened and into which he stepped inside—the bildungsroman journey of a former golden
boy now black-sheep prodigal-son at last come to an end. At least for now.
Late afternoon, his father still at work, his mother out sewing something for the church,
Rand in good cheer approached his six siblings (congering in the den under the glow of the
television) but found all of them skittish and shy as if he were a just-released reform-school

Ship Out on the Foam

4

stepbrother or rarely seen uncle of tainted reputation. What stories they had been told to allay
their curiosity, mitigate the damage to family honor, he couldn’t know, but there were no
hugs or kisses from this after all transplanted non-demonstrative Yankee family, no
emotional moments of sweet reunion, none of them knowing what to say to the stranger come
into town. He was 19, they were all younger (in dispersements of devout Catholic, two-year
family-planning); only his sister spoke: “Daddy says to look in the refrigerator” which he did
and inside which he spied wedged between a long yellow box of Velveeta and a pasteboard
carton of eggs a frosty litre of Liebraumilch— his favorite in those days of oenological
naiveté—with a Welcome Home! note scotch-taped to the butt, and without looking further
for any food his mother might have set aside (she hadn’t) he snaked out the already
corkscrewed well-chilled slim bottle and cradled it by the neck into the sacred first generation
American living room, which was not covered in plastic but neither was it accessible to
children for any reason other than to be quickly introduced to invited adult guests then
redirected to the den or yard, but Rand, having graduated from the realm of childhood
(although without acceptable petit bourgeois distinction), walked right in, thumbed through
his brothers’ record collections, yanked free the just-released first Led Zeppelin album
(having been forcibly isolated and deprived of any music for the past six months, he had
heard only whispered reverent talk of it), eased the vinyl under the needle of the console’s
turntable, snapped forward the on switch, dialed the volume to maximum, sat down on the
floor with back against the verboten sofa, tilted the bottle against his lips and let the cool
mineral-rich wine slather down his anxious gullet as the opening notes of Good Times, Bad
Times parted the air and upon instantaneously reaching his body shook it like his back ain’t
had no bone. . .

Ship Out on the Foam

5

Everything went black then white then black again as a sustained surprise assault of an
ingeniously wrought musical dynamic consumed the whole of his being. It was unlike
anything he had heard before. It was blues and it was rock, but no morpheomanic black or
imitative long-haired white musicians had ever expressed it with such artistic and sensual
ingenuity. And as in some LSD experiences wherein every word innocently said by a passing
stranger can be pregnant with deep personal significance to the tripper, the words of the song
spoke directly to Rand of his present situation: In the days of my youth, I was told what it
means to be a man. Now I’ve reached that age I try to do all those things the best I can. No
matter how I try, I find my way to the same old jam . . . the jam being that he was here in his
parents’ house where he didn’t want to be, unsure of whether his girlfriend, Helena, was still
waiting for him or was shacked up with someone else as he hadn’t been allowed while
incarcerated to write to anyone outside of his immediate family. The next words of the song
directly addressed this: Good times, bad times, you know I’ve had my share. When my woman
left home for a brown-eyed man well I still don’t seem to care . . .

But if his woman, his

Helena, had left home, as it were, he did care, in fact, he cared very much and he was
dreading the phone call that would provide that answer.
They all said they would wait, didn’t they? When he first went into the army, his
girlfriend of two years said of course she would wait, couldn’t he feel the passion of her love
for him? How could he possibly doubt her fidelity? But before he had finished eight weeks of
basic training the infamous (and ubiquitous because so common) Dear John letter was in his
hands I still love you very much but I met someone and . . . And as well he thought of Ezra
Pound and the two-week limit—but the song continued Seventeen, I fell in love with a girl as
sweet as could be. It only took a couple of days till she was rid of me . . . A couple of days?
But that had never happened to him. Maybe there was hope after all. He had been 18 and

Ship Out on the Foam

6

AWOL from the army when he met Helena and they were together much longer than two
days, maybe six months . . .
The divinely wrought power of the blues-rich music took control of his nervous system
re-regulating the direction and flow of the blood that was newly being pumped in happy sync
with the vibrant bass and cleverly assertive drums though the unpredictable shift in time
signature, in mood, in instrumentation, prompted frequent if irregular surges of adrenalin (or
other like substances) from still young glands, which in turn enabled a euphoria that could
rival any he had achieved as a medic with easy access to sterile needles and a pharmacopeia
of untainted drugs . . . And as his body writhed and vibrated about the floor (his frightened
brothers and sisters warily watching from the next room) in fits of aesthetic and visceral
ecstasy, only slightly chemically enhanced by the Liebraumilch, each succeeding song spoke
to him and guided him further into a kind of artisticus spasticus labyrinth of heightened
sensations.
Babe I’m Gonna Leave You with its sweetly folkish guitar notes had a soothing effect
that paralleled the peaceful easy influence of the chilled wine; the words of the song were not
so apropos of his current situation but the musical changes, the intense ups and downs, the
impressive power and range of the voice, were in themselves stimulating. Then came the
flattening-all-in-its-path avalanche of lyrical beauty and teasing licentiousness of Willie
Dixon and J. B. Lenoir’s You Shook Me, rendered in a fashion so exalting and stimulating as
to make its originators proud while it also incorporated a surprising and—to Rand,
delightful—reference to Dylan’s version of Corina Corina with the addended Robert Johnson
“I got a bird that whistles” lyrics (from Stones in My Passway) sung in perfect sync and
timbre with the notes of the lead guitar in an upwardly transcendent duo that through deft,
organic manipulation descended at the end of each line like the disintegrating cry of a bomb

Ship Out on the Foam

7

falling through the air; but instead of the single shock of explosion at the end, it moved in a
side motion with a bass and tenor exaggerated three-chord blues riff, spreading the impact of
the detonation along the ground in a wide swathe as that same bass line morphed into the
opening soul-throbs of Dazed and Confused . . . And so on . . .

At some point—he later surmised that it was during I Can’t Quit You Baby because when
he listened to the album again he didn’t remember hearing How Many More Times, the last
song on the record—his head no longer propped against the couch but resting on an inner
forearm, he drifted completely into a subconscious state, which is how his parents found him
when they arrived together at six o’clock, his mother alarmed at first sight of him splayed
across the carpet as if he had done himself harm (there had been lapses into depressive
lassitude all through childhood), but in noting that the wine bottle on the floor next to him
was empty and in hearing the somnambulant moans and disparate murmurings from his
mouth her mind was comforted, even more so as her husband intoned, “He’s all right. Let
him sleep it off. He’s had a long and, if I know the army, poorly organized, unnecessarily
difficult journey.”


