
Alex and his wife could hear the wild pigs at night outside
having a feast on the golden fruit as the wind blew the fruit to
the ground. They rolled over in bed without concern. During the
day, red ants scurried up and down the giant pear trees, taking in
the sweet juice. The birds knew exactly when the fruit was ripe and
had their fill. Squirrels stuffed themselves until they could
hardly move. Yet there was plenty left if they weren’t picked.
Children picked a few occasionally, mostly throwing the pears at
each other. They preferred junk food. On the corner, across the
street, was a food bank. A line would form for free handouts. I
guess reaching up and picking a few of the sweet, juicy, golden-red
fruit was too much work. The pears eventually fell to the ground
and the pigs, gnats, and flies, would feast. It was 1999.
In 1870, Ivan Vukovic, an immigrant from Croatia, immigrated
to the United States and settled in San Francisco, getting a job as
a shipwright, his prior occupation. He worked hard for ten years
and saved his money. He married a United States’ citizen and began
building a family. He always dreamed of having a farm. He looked
around in cities close to San Francisco but the property was too
expensive.


At the market, in the section where the fruit was on display,
he asked the friendly grocer, “Where do all this fruit come?”
“It comes from all over.”
Picking up a juicy apple, he said, “How about thes, where do
come?”
“Sebastopol. The best apples in the world. Would you like
some?”
“Sur, how much?”
“A nickel each.”
“I take a half dozen. Where Sebaspol?”
“Up north, across the bay.” After handing Ivan the apples, the
grocer began helping another customer.
“Where Sebaspol?” Ivan asked his fellow workers the next day.
“Close to Hayward,” said one of them.
“Naw, in Pennsylvania,” said another.
“Where that?”
“Across the country, where Ben Franklin lived.”
“Where that?”
“A couple thousand miles away.”
“Huh?”
After work, Ivan picked up a map for three cents, took it
home, and studied it. After a half hour he found Pennsylvania, but
no Sebastopol.
“Sebastopol is across the bay,” said his eight-year-old
daughter. “My teacher told me it was close to Petaluma.”

3

“Petluma? Where that?”
“My teacher showed me on the map in our classroom.”
The next day, Ivan went back to the store and purchased a
California map. There, in very small print, was the name
Sebastopol, not far from Petaluma.
Ivan planned a trip for a week’s vacation with his wife and
four children, with the intent of someday resettling to a farm —
his dream since childhood. Following the map and some advice, he
took a ferry across the bay to Marin, and then transferred to
another boat to the end of the line in the swampy Petaluma harbor.
The captain on the boat was a talkative guy, and when Ivan
told him he was a shipwright, it made him talk more.
“Where ya headin’?” said the captain.
“Sebaspol.”
“Nice place. I hope to go there someday ta visit the redwoods
west of there, and take my kids, ya know?”
“Have heard any land for sale, maybe a small farm?”
“Well, there’s a lot of land around here, big parcels
everywhere. See them cattle over there? This is cattle country. Now
the chickens are movin’ in. Eggs going out by the millions since
last year, when some guy invented a hatching machine. No chickens
needed.”
“How they make the eggs?”

4

“I don’t know, but people are gettin’ rich, big fancy cars and
all. If you look down a-ways, you can see big houses goin’ up,
mansions with ten bedrooms and twelve baths, they say.”
“Twelve bath for ten bedroom?”
“That’s what they says?”
Later, while eating their neatly prepared lunch, which was
packed in a basket, they sat on a grassy beach beside the Petaluma
River before taking a buckboard to Sebastopol. The scenery was
beautiful as they bounced down the road. Once they left Petaluma,
there were only a few distant farmhouses and barns in sight. They
rattled along the dusty road, surrounded by the smell of horse
manure, for twenty-five miles. The horse’s hooves kicked up clods
of horse droppings here and there.
The land was fairly flat, surrounded 360 degrees by distant
hills up to 2,500 feet in height. The fields were green with a few
trees scattered around. Along the swampy areas grew larger trees.
Ducks, geese, and birds in large groups were flying everywhere,
landing and peacefully floating in the marshes, sometimes with only
their rear ends sticking out of the water as they searched for
food.
When they approached town they saw a lumber yard and next to
it a barn like building. A man with a leather apron holding a
horse’s foot between his legs was nailing on a horse shoe. Crossing
the rail tracks was a sign in front of a building displaying
Garett’s metal works. They past the post office, Chinese

5

restaurant, a bar and restaurant, and across the street a
barbershop, grocery store and hardware store combined, and clothing
store. A few more small buildings continued down the street. To the
east of town was a lumber mill and packing houses and cattle pens,
holding cattle waiting for slaughter. Surrounding the town were
orchards, most of them apple, some scattered out in the country.
The family spent four days there, visiting the redwoods farther
west, strolling down the side of the river, and renting a boat in a
swampy pond that had been cleared for recreation.
Ivan looked around and saw a sign in the general hardware
store. LAND FOR SALE. FRANK HANSEN. He dialed the number and two people
answered at the same time, a woman and a boy.
“Mr. Hansen there?” Ivan said.
“No sa,” said the boy. “He out somewhere.”
“Whoops!” said another voice. “I’ll wait, I was dialing out.”
“That’s all right, Mrs. Logan. I’ll be quick.”
“Can you tell him Ivan called abou’ property sale.”
“Sure.” The phone went dead.
“Ello! Ello! Mr. Hanson?” Ivan said.
“No, this is Millie.”
“Millie?”
“Millie Logan. I need to make a call.”
“Sorry, I try to get hold Mr. Hanson.”
“Frank. At this time Frank should be at Chuckey’s.”
“Ah.”

6

“Chuckey’s, the pub. I need to make a call.”
“Sorry.”
Ivan hung up and went outside. He saw that the sign next door
read “Chuckey’s.” He went into the bar, which was full of roughlooking men. As he pulled up a stool, the bartender said, “What’ll
ya have?”
“Ah look for Mr. Handson.”
“Ya mean Frank? He just left.”
The man sitting next to him said, “Frank went to the hardware
store. The seat you are sitting on is still warm from where his ass
was parked.”
“Thanks.” Ivan looked at the man with a poker face, wondering
whether he should smile, buy a beer, or run.
At the hardware store, there were two people talking near the
counter.
“Mister Handson?”
They both turned around and stared for a moment, sizing Ivan
up. “Which one?” one of them mumbled, slurring his words.
“Ah...ah...Frank.”
“That’s me. How can I help ya?”
“I...”
“Oh, this is my brother, Ray.”
“My pleasure,” Ivan said.
“What can I help ya with?”
“Uh, well, looking for some property.”

7

“Looks like you’re talkin’ to the right man.”
Just then a customer came in not seeing Ivan behind a display.
“Hey, Frank,” he said. “There’s a man looking for ya. Maybe a
detective after you for stealing old lady Iris’s bees.”
“Get off my ass, Reed, ya old bastard, this man is looking for
some property.”
“Well, I just thought I’d let ya know.”
Frank turned to Ivan. “What kind of property ya looking for?”
“A farm.”
“We got lots of them. Let’s go next store and talk. I’ll buy
the beer.”
After greeting ten people while Ivan stood behind him, Frank
motioned Ivan to a corner table.
“I got anything ya want, from a thousand acres to forty. Where
ya from?”
“San Francisco.”
“The big city! That keeps us all in business, buying our
crops, mostly apples, all of mine, ya know. We don’t get many
buyers these days. Those chicken people are selling land right and
left. Big money. People only come here to visit. Hey, Burt! Another
and two shots of bourbon to wash down the beer.”
“Comin’ up.”
“Land is selling cheap here these days and I can make you a
hell of a deal.”

8

“I lookin’ for a small farm, mayb’ roun’ ten hectare’s, good
price.”
“Hectare’s..let’s see, how many acres is that?”
“Between two, three, somethin’ like that.”
“I think a little more than two. Well, there’re a few places
already for sale and some that might be, if the price is right.”
“How much the land cost per ah acre?”
“Anywhere from ten to twenty-five, depends on what’s on it.
Orchard land costs more but is harder to find. How about we meet
here tomorrow, about ten o’clock, after I finish my chores?”
“That be fine. Wha’ time?”
“Ah...ten-thirty.”
Ivan didn’t finish his beer or drink his bourbon. Frank
finished his and downed Ivan’s full glass of bourbon.
At ten-thirty the next morning, Frank showed up, riding his
horse with another in tow, and tied them to the rail. Ivan was
inside having a cup of coffee. Frank joined him.
“Ya ready for a look around?”
“Ready.”
“Let’s go. Jump on Nellie. She’s old and slow but tough as
nails.”
“Ah, I never been on horse...”
“I figured ya were a city slicker, so I brought Nellie.”
“How get on? I never do horse before.”

9

“That’s all right. Nellie already has you figured out. Just
grab the reins and hold on to the saddle horn at the same time, now
put your foot in the stirrup and swing the other leg over.”
The horse turned as Ivan put his weight in the stirrup. He
jumped around on one leg with the other slipping off.
“Whoops, ya got to throw your leg over quickly.”
“OK.” Ivan tried again.
“That’s it, now grab the reins lightly and hold them on the
horn so there is no slack, then when you want to go forward, loosen
up the reins and give her a slight kick with your heals and she’ll
move forward.”
The horse started backing up. Ivan got confused and kicked the
horse with his heals, pulling back on the reins for balance. The
horse started rising up on her back legs.
“Hold on! Don’t pull the reins tight! Loosen them up!” Frank
reached up high and grabbed the reins near the horse’s mouth. “Let
go, I got her. Let’s try another way. Keep the reins loose and
don’t do anything. She’ll just follow me.”
Frank swung up on his horse and started riding. Nellie
followed. Ivan, sweating, held on to the reins and saddle horn with
both hands, gripping it tightly.
Frank showed Ivan three parcels of property; one 1,000 acres,
one 160 acres, and one next to town that was 60 acres. Ivan never
dismounted during the two-hour tour because he figured he was so
sore he probably wouldn’t be able to get back on. His rear end

10

hurt, his legs cramped up, and his testicles ached. It was not an
option to get down and rest.
In the meantime, Frank rested the horses. He reached down with
cupped hands to get a drink of the cool water from a small stream,
then took a piss. “Hey, this water is cool and sweet, don’t ya want
some?”
Ivan wanted to get off the horse. He hurt badly but he stayed
put, fearing that if he moved, the horse would rear up and throw
him off, or start running. He had to piss so bad he could taste it
but held his ground.
“No thanks, I stay right here.”
Frank shrugged. “It’s your party.”
After their tour, Frank helped ease Ivan’s painful body off
Nellie and they headed toward the bar. Ivan staggered to a chair
next to a small table, walking like he was drunk, and flopped down
with relief. Over a few beers, Ivan told Frank that he couldn’t
afford any more than forty acres, if the price was right.
“Let’s see what I can do.”
Ivan and his family headed back to the city. Ivan was in pain
and didn’t feel as enthusiastic as he had been. But a few days
later, he received a call from Frank.
“Mr. Erickson will sell you forty acres from his 160 acres for
$10 an acre. It’s a beautiful property; the one that I showed ya a
half mile from town. The forty acres borders the stream that you

11

both will have access to. There’s an old barn on it and a few oak
trees.”
“I’ll come this weekend and look.”
Ivan bought the property, negotiating the price down to $8 an
acre. From that time on, the price of the property went drastically
up.
The following year, Ivan began planting apple trees but he
couldn’t forget the magnificent pear tree in the back yard of his
parents’ home in Croatia with the delicious, juicy, reddish-golden
pears hanging from its branches. He sent a letter to his younger
brother, Marco, asking him to come to America and help build his
house, and to bring bud cuttings from the pear tree.
Ivan planted a half acre of pear root stock in April, and
after his brother arrived, they grafted the cutting buds to the
rootstock.
One afternoon, two rough-looking riders covered with dust
appeared. They wore side guns and had rifles in their saddle cases.
Their horses soaked with sweat. They asked Ivan and his brother for
water from the small stream that ran through their ranch.
As they drank, one of the men said, “Ya got any grub?” He
pulled out gold $20 coin. “And some hay for our horses and maybe a
few hours rest in that barn over there?”
Ivan, a little confused and taken by surprise at the large sum
of money, nodded. He led them to barn after they’d had their fill
of water. “Can stay in the barn for night, there hay in there.”

12

Other cowboys were around. Some had rifles and occasionally a
six-gun or pistol to shoot varmints, but not like these two men.
Ivan had read stories about cowboys in the West like Buffalo Bill,
Wild Bill Hickok, and Black Bart, who was a local outlaw. But these
cowboys looked like the bank robbers in his imagination. He
wondered if they were, in fact, real robbers.
Ivan was thrilled and invited them to his house for dinner.
Ivan’s wife cooked a meat stew and made a salad. The cowboys never
took off their gun belts and sat their rifles next to the front
door.
“Are ya real cowboys?” said Ivan’s son.
“Ya might say that,” said one of the men.
“Have ya ever shot anybody?”
“Well, young man, I try not to,” said the other man, dipping a
big piece of bread into his stew, which colored a part of his
mustache orange.
“Can I—”
“Leave men alone, son, can’t you see they hungry? They
probably had a rough day.”
The next day at the break of dawn, the men were gone. On the
top of a stool lay another $20 gold piece.
Word soon went around that a wealthy hatchery owner in
Petaluma had been robbed of over a thousand dollars of gold by two
bandits headed toward Sebastopol. Ivan and his brother never said a
word. They went about their chores as if nothing had happened. In

13

the backs of their minds they had become part of the Old West. The
exciting stories they had heard and read about became true to them
and now they were part of the history of the West. Posses scattered
around the countryside looking for the robbers but they were never
heard from again.
In five years, Ivan and his brother planted another acre and a
half of pear rootstock and months later grafted them with bud
cuttings from their original pear trees. They planted most of the
remaining property with Gravenstein apples. Ivan still worked at
his job in San Francisco, along with his brother, and spent
weekends and holidays at the ranch. Eventually, he and his family
moved to the ranch.
When they were on school breaks, the children worked at the
apple-packing plant every summer, and his wife helped at harvest
time and sometimes at the packing plant. The apples were picked,
delivered to the packing plant, then sent to San Francisco and all
over the world. The pears were the favorite and most were consumed
before they left San Francisco.
In 1931, Ivan died. His brother died a year later. The Great
Depression was going strong, but the apples, and especially the
pears, were still selling well. People had to eat and the family
made a meager living. Ivan’s eldest daughter took over the ranch
and the family continued to farm it.

14

In 1972, prices were falling and the family, with little
income, sold the land but kept the two-acre pear orchard with the
house and barn.
Now neglected, the ranch and trees fell into disrepair except
for one pear next to the house, which was cared for. Fortunately,
an underground stream flowed six feet under the pear orchard and
those trees kept growing until they became giants. The orchard
stood by itself, surrounded by neighborhood houses. The land was
very valuable and pressure was put on the family to sell. Ivan’s
great-grandson Alex sold two of the remaining two-and-a-half acres
for $160,000 — just enough to pay off the debt his family had
accumulated — keeping the house and a half acre. The house, barn,
and one pear tree were spared after bulldozers ripped out the
magnificent pear tree orchard.
Today, the last gigantic pear tree remains in the back of the
old house that Ivan and his brother built. Maybe the buds from that
tree will be budded to another orchard someday. If not, that
beautiful fruit will be forgotten...along with the sack of gold
that remains buried under the dirt in the corner of the barn.


