“Wow girl, my Dad is all excited about going to this Black History Museum, today,”
Sonya uttered as she talks on her cell phone to her friend Jasmine. “Besides, I
need to check to see if Harvey left me a message. You know he wants to take me
out next Saturday night,” she continued. “I just want to get this tour over. I mean
what’s so inspirational about going to a museum especially with my irritating little
brother, Junior.” “Sonya will you get off the phone and get in this car, her Dad,
John stated emphatically. “I don’t want to be late for our museum tour, and we
have to be on time, in line before the tour starts. Matter of fact, the tickets have a
disclaimer statement that states arrival at least 15 minutes prior to the start.”
“Finally, we made it to the museum, “John was relieved. Then his cell phone rang.
Hey Tom. We just got up here to the exhibit at the museum... Yeah, I got my kids
with me. I thought it was important for them to experience this today. Well when we
finish here, I will shoot the report over to you so you can finish the presentation for
tomorrow's meeting. Alright. Thanks. Bye.
Pam the Tour Guide walks over to John and says Hello Sir...
I am sorry Ma'am. Give me one second... Sonya, Junior — would y'all please come
on. The tour is about to start. Dad, we are coming. This is awesome! There are
just so many cool things in this museum. Did you see the 3D images downstairs, all
those inventions... Aww, man there is so much to do here!
Junior. Look, we are about to go to the next exhibit. Son do not touch anything.
Just look with your eyes and not your hands. You were all over the place at the
last exhibit and were making me nervous. And where is your sister...Keisha,
Come on!
Can you believe her? I was like who does that? And then she had the nerve to post
it on Snapchat. Duh? Like everyone in school is going to see how whack she is.
“Sonya!” John shouts. But I have to admit, her boots were on point. I think that is
the only reason she got so many likes. I am going to Forever 21 to get me...
Sonya would get off that phone. You act like you cannot live without being on that
thing 24 hours a day.
Dad, you are messing up my Facetime... Huh (frustrated). Jasmine, I have to
go. My Dad wants me to see the wonderful history museum. That is why I cannot
wait to go to college so I can have my freedom.
What did you say?! Her father looked at her with a serious look and if looks could
kill.

2/21/2010 10:10 AM

3
Nothing, I just um... Sonya quickly responded. That is what I thought. (faces tour
guide). OK, ma'am. I am sorry. I just wanted everyone to be here, together, when
we started the tour.
No problem, the tour guide stated. Welcome again to the Black History Museum. I
hope you have been enjoying your time with us. My name is Pam and I will be your
tour guide for this next exhibit we call "Legacies of Greatness"
Legacies of Greatness. Ok, that has a nice ring to it. John was enthralled
Yes, this exhibit celebrates the rich legacy of Black History by highlighting the
powerful stories and accomplishments of iconic black figures who have made
major contributions to our heritage. Oh wow, that is amazing!
Well. the great thing about this exhibit is that it is an interactive display. So, as you
go to each station and press the start button, the exhibits will come to life and share
their story of greatness. We can start right here with the first one. (looks at Junior).
Young man, would you like to do the honors?
Um... my dad told when I get up here that I better not to touch anything, do not ask
for anything...
. .. Um, um, son...lt's OK. Go ahead. John emphatically interrupts.
Junior pushes the button, and the Robert Abbott exhibit comes to life.
Have you heard of Essence, Black Enterprise, JET Magazine, well if so, you
probably know who I am. I am Robert Abbott and I paved the way for these great
magazines as the founder of the Chicago Defender in 1905 which grew to have the
highest circulation of any black-owned newspaper in the country. Born in 1870 as
a child of former slaves, I fought to obtain my law degree in 1899 but then was told
I was too black to practice law in America. Struggling to earn a living as a lawyer, I
became convinced that I could defend black people in print better than in a
courtroom and that is what I did through the Chicago Defender. The success of this
paper allowed me to become one of the nation's most successful post-slaver black
millionaires and after 100 years is still in circulation today. I am Robert Abbott
Over 100 years old and still in circulation. That is incredible.
It is amazing. How about we check out this next display? Please, go ahead. Pam
motions toward the Sojourner Truth exhibit.
John pushes the button and the Sojourner Truth exhibit springs forward

2/21/2010 10:10 AM

4
You shall know the truth and the truth shall set you free... You guessed it- I am
Sojourner Truth and I became an outspoken advocate for civil and women's rights
in the 19th century. I was born into slavery as Isabella Bomfree in New York in 1797.
I was bought and sold numerous times as a slave and endured harsh physical labor
and unjust punishments. In 1826 1 escaped to freedom with my infant daughter
Sophia and begin serving in ministry shortly thereafter. In 1843 1 felt the strong
calling of God to preach truth and then renamed myself Sojourner Truth. In my fight
for equality for slaves and women, I begin speaking all over the nation, lobbied
against segregation and was eventually honored at the White House and became
involved in the Freedmen's Bureau to help freed slaves find jobs and build new lives.
The impact of my legacy carries on today. I am Sojourner Truth.
Sonya, you see that? You are benefiting today from the legacy of Sojourner Truth.
Dad I had no idea that... (interrupted). Sonya retorts. Wow Dad, this next one is
about baseball! Junior states. Bruh that's rude, Sonya displayed her displeasure
with Junior interruption.
Yes, we made history as entrepreneurs and activists, but in sports as well.
Well you know, back in the day your father used to quite the athlete if I may say so
myself. I remember my first game like it was yesterday... John is immediately cut off
by his daughter.
OK Dad, please spare us the 30-minute lecture of the glory days. We heard these
stories a million times ...Junior, go ahead and push the button.
"A life is not important except in the impact it has on other lives." I am Jackie
Robinson, and this is a quote I lived by to help me to break the color barrier in
baseball and become the first black player in the 20th century to take the field in the
big leagues. I played as a second baseman for the Kansas Monarchs as a part of
the Negro Leagues until the Brooklyn Dodgers manager decided he wanted to
integrate baseball. In 1947, I made my major league debut with this team. I endured
much opposition, unfair treatment and even death threats, but kept on holding on to
my dream and eventually became Rookie of the Year and then MVP just two years
later. The Dodgers won six pennants in my 10 seasons. And on every April 15 th of
each season every team in the Major League Baseball teams celebrate Jackie
Robinson day for the contribution I made to black history and the game of baseball.
I am Jackie Robinson.
What an incredible legacy! We have done a lot as a people.
We sure have. Just wait to hear the amazing story of this woman!
2/21/2010 10:10 AM

5
Sonya, go ahead and take it away. After this prompt, Sonya hits the button.
If you have traveled by using a smartphone, flown in an airplane, used social
media, had food delivered to your house then you have experienced the impact of
my work. I am Dr. Gladys West and played a pivotal role in creating the
technology that is used in the Geographical Positioning System, better known as
GPS. I graduated from Virginia State University on a full academic scholarship and
then later obtained my masters degree. In 1956 1 was hired as a mathematician at
the Dahlgren Virginia Naval
Base where I input data collected from orbiting machines into supercomputers and
used complex calculations to record satellite locations to measure the size and
shape of the earth which led to the accuracy of the GPS system. Today, my work
is used by the military, auto industry, NASA, social media and the list goes on and
on which led to me being inducted into the Air Force Hall of Fame. I am Dr. Gladys
West.
Do you mean to tell me that all these apps on my phone using GPS are connected
to black history? Thank you, Dr. West.
Yes honey, these are just a few of the many contributions we made throughout
history.
Your dad is right. Sonya, why don't you go ahead and start the next exhibit?
Don't mind if I do. Be my guest, her father implored. Enthusiastically, Sonya hits
the button.
I worked as a civil rights attorney, became the first black President of the Harvard
Law Review, won a Nobel Peace Prize, served as a community organizer on the
south side of Chicago and am a husband and father of two — but you may know
me better as Barack Hussein Obama, the first black President of the United States
of America. Throughout my life I have been driven by a deep passion to bring
about change. In my early days as a community organizer I organized Project
Vote which was a drive that registered tens of thousands of black people in
Chicago. In 1996 1 was elected to the Illinois State Senate and then to the U.S.
Senate in 2004 where I fought to reform criminal justice and welfare laws. In 2007,
I declared that I would run for the highest office in the land and in 2008 won the
election to become the 44th President of the United States of America. I am
President Barack Obama.
Dad, do you think I can be president one day?
Son, you can be whatever you put your mind to. Just look at all these great people
who did amazing things.

2/21/2010 10:10 AM

6
Keisha: Speaking of great people. Dad I have heard of all these people in school,
but I do not recognize these individuals? (looks at the tour guide). Who are these
people?
Tour Guide: Why don't you hit the button to find out?
(Keisha hits the button)
Person 1: I marched at Selma
Person 2: I helped bring slaves through the underground railroad
Person 3: I led the prayer meetings for our children and civil rights leaders
Person 4: I was arrested during a peaceful protest
Person 1: I organized the bus boycott in my town
Person 2: I taught black children to read when they were not allowed in schools
Person 3: I fought for black educational rights
Person 4: I helped organize civil rights meetings through the local church
Person 1: We held on to the dream
Person 2: We kept the faith
Person 3: We stood strong
Person 4: We never gave up
Person 1: Who are we?
All: We are the unsung heroes of black history.

You see there are countless people whose names we will never know who made
tremendous sacrifices, gave their all and even laid down their lives to help us get
to where we are today.
Dad I never realized how much those who came before us did to impact my life. I
can go to college because of the sacrifices these people made for me.
You are correct, Sonya. Therefore, I wanted to bring you both down here. I wanted
you to see that black history is a rich legacy greatness. Never forget where you
came from and always be proud of who you are.
Dad I am so glad you brought us with you.
Yeah Dad, this was awesome!
2/21/2010 10:10 AM

7
I knew you would enjoy it. Well let's get you guys home so that you can get your
homework done.
Wait, Dad before we leave, can we finish seeing the rest of the exhibits on this
floor.
Wow. Sure, honey absolutely.
Wait, before we leave, I have to get a selfie to put on the Gram. This is going to get
so many likes.
Aww Dad, do we have to?
Somethings are never going to change.
Well ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's tour. We hope you enjoyed
yourself and have been inspired to carry on this great legacy of black history.
We look forward to seeing you next time at our Legacies of Greatness at the
Black History Museum.

2/21/2010 10:10 AM


