He was on his deathbed. It was true even if nobody would say it. Everyone else
skirted around it and said things in the nice polite ways but he was annoyed by this and so
made a point of speaking out with harsh blunt comments about the truthfulness of the
situation that were arresting and made people fidget and go quiet. He found that this was
exhausting in its own way so soon enough he gave it a rest, so to speak.
He did find relief in the slightly perverse humor of such comments so he went on
with the jokes in his own head, projecting terribly candid comments onto a hospital staff
well‐versed in the pleasant professionalism standard in large regional hospitals. Nurse,
please wheel Mr. Finley’s deathbed into room three…. Eat up Mr. Finley, you don’t have many
meals left…. Would you like me to recline your deathbed for you, Mr. Finley?
The jokes worked, but only early on and in just a slight way, to temper the situation
and help him “to get by.” They could never be enough to handle it entirely because he was
in a pain that was real and constant and tiring, a pain that wasn’t otherworldly, not
unimaginable to healthy people when they do their best to imagine being in his condition, a
real almost ordinary pain that differed in degree and duration, not nature, from other pains
he had known in his life. People don’t really understand that, he now thought.
The pain had the effect of turning him quiet, more quiet than he had been even in his
later years. He would sit and listen to the equipment around and through him, the drips
and the beeps, the clicks and the whirrs. Many of his hours were spent sleeping but the
wakeful ones were largely made up of his looking around and coming to all sorts of
conclusions on things he had little practical experience with. He guessed at the prices and
basic functionality of the equipment around his bed—the more knobs, switches, screens,


tubes and moving parts were assumed to up the price and operative range. He thought on
the off‐white walls, speckled white tile floors, grey drapes and generic décor. He assumed,
correctly, that the rooms next door and down the hall, the rooms on the floors above and
beneath, looked more or less identical to his. He guessed at the amount of money that this
type of uniformity must save in building costs. He wondered where the contractors cut
corners and for a time became slightly embittered by the generic nature of it all. They
couldn’t have made this stuff look more sterile and utilitarian, he decided early on. We’re
dying in here, couldn’t they have laid a nice wood finish over some of this stuff, maybe some
dark leather here and there? Couldn’t they help a guy’s death feel a little classier, not so damn
serial?
He settled on this opinion and let it bother and grate at him for a short time but the
bitterness didn’t last long because the pain shouted over such little thoughts and didn’t
allow them to fester for too long. The pain proved to be purifying in some ways, purging the
superfluous and leaving just the solid things. And so he began to accept it, believing that the
setting and situation were just what they should be. All the finished wood and leather in the
world isn’t going to change the nature of it, he decided.
He felt a pride at this type of clarity and began to use it very much like a tool as he
did his thinking and reflecting. But then in all of this thinking he sensed an approach
toward something hidden. He felt he was getting into things he knew he shouldn’t—the
long buried things, the long buried for a reason things. He was compelled though and was
helpless to stop it, and so he waded into them cautiously, suspecting he could retreat before
it all got to be too much. He sensed this was dangerous and unwise, that beating around the
bush would only serve to clear a pathway to the thick tangled roots of it. And he was

The Death of An Apple Man

correct in that intuition because when he arrived there it was in an instant—vicious and
comprehensive—and it came with an image and an emotion. It was all Sara Douglas.
She was sitting in the passenger seat of his old Chrysler, turned halfway in her seat,
looking at him directly. Her eyes were soft and blue, strong without being abrasive and self‐
assured enough to be unguarded. Hovering around the young creases at the corner of her
eyes and floating in the unseen muscles near her mouth was an expression that seemed
ready to touch down but never quite did. It was a look caught somewhere between
emotions. The other details of the night settled in as vague backdrops—he couldn’t
remember where exactly they had been or what they had been doing before arriving in that
place—but he knew it was the last night before she left and he once again knew the look of
her face.
She had been talking, talking about the adventure ahead of her most likely, and then
she finished her thought and there was a pause, a wait, and that face. The silence allowed
an intimation of the moment’s singular nature, a sense that all that had led to it was good
and right and he felt, more than thought, that perhaps her brief silence was an invitation to
speak out, say something, a passive‐aggressive plea for him to stop her, keep her close for
now, forever. It was salient and simple but he had balked. Hesitated too long. Sara Douglas
blinked, and then turned forward.
The moment had passed as quickly as it had arrived but the cloudy emotional
darkness stayed for much much longer. He had fought against the darkness with attempts
at convincing himself that if it was meant to be, that it still could be, that this would only
make them stronger, that God works in mysterious ways and that all would be well.

The Death of An Apple Man

After time the mystery came out of it however. It hadn’t made them stronger. It had
been an end moment just as he had feared. He worked to convince himself that it had not
been meant to be after all and eventually he thought himself successful. He saw himself
thoroughly convinced. So it scared him now, sixty‐four years later, to find the old feeling
back within him.
He opened his eyes. His wife was sitting in her place next to his hospital bed. He
turned his head slightly and she smiled at him. She loved him. There was no doubt about
that. And he loved her. He loved her the best he could for every one of their sixty‐two years
together.
By the time he had met his wife he was well practiced at pushing thoughts of Sara
Douglas away. By that point he had become happy again, as happy as anyone could
reasonably expect, especially in the face of all the disadvantage there is in this world. He
considered himself lucky to have met his wife and he knew he shouldn’t complain. She was
good to him and she made him smile and she could very well have found someone else.
Still, he couldn’t help but compare at the beginning. The comparison forced itself on him
and nagged and nagged.
Early on he told himself that time would make up for it, that something that was
good at first could be something great if it lasted for decades. He told himself that maybe he
was comparing apples and oranges and that oranges were, for him, an acquired taste. He
thought he could be an orange man. He even came to believe that maybe he was supposed
to have been an orange man all along. He had become thoroughly convinced, so much so
that Sara Douglas left his mind for years at a time, then decades. He thought he had buried
the feelings and the image down so deep that they couldn’t possibly survive. But she was

The Death of An Apple Man

back and she was back right now, sixty‐four years later. That has got to mean something, he
thought, that has got to mean something.
He once again felt caught in a terrible sensation that hung in the air as when
something expensive, something truly valuable, something irreplaceable, has been knocked
from its place but has yet to crush across the floor. It was the same agonizing premonition
of perilous outcome and paralyzing realization of helplessness, hitting simultaneously and
with blunt force, sixty‐four years after her look then turn of head from the passenger side
of the old Chrysler. It thrashed and built up hot inside him for a span of time that belonged
outside of the narrow range measured by the minute and second hands on the generic wall
clock opposite his bed or white‐gold wristwatch hanging loosely on his wife’s wrinkled
arm.
He reached out and grabbed her hand and started as if to speak. It seemed unfair,
hurtful, even cruel possibly, to say something now all these years later and so close to the
end. But his need for relief was dire and nothing else presented itself as an escape.
She looked at him and waited, concerned but not alarmed. He hadn’t spoken since
earlier that morning when the polite but preoccupied nurse who handled most of the
routine had asked him this or that about the I.V. in his arm. His voice cracked and carried
little weight.
“I’ve been an apple man, honey. And I’m so so sorry.”
She heard it fine, thought on it for a moment, didn’t understand but didn’t think it
odd. She attributed it to his condition as most people do around deathbeds. She made her
best guess and went to the hall to ask the nurse to bring an apple, misunderstanding his
statement more severely than anyone but he could possibly ever know. The nurse soon

The Death of An Apple Man

brought an apple and knife, placed them on the tray, added a glad comment about his
wanting solid food and left. His wife took them both up from the tray and began cutting the
apple into thin manageable slices. He watched and the sight of it crushed across him and
hurt all over in a deep pain that was distinct from routine and seemed rooted at the
ambiguous heart of him.
He lay there, on his deathbed with eyes now closed, and listened to the moist
crunch of the plastic knife moving through the apple. Tears built at the corners of his eyes
and rolled individually down his cheeks. He lay in quiet and felt the pain out thoroughly, let
it wash around and through him. He let it in and over and about. After six decades, he let it.
And the duration of the pain was brief, relatively speaking, for it wasn’t long before there
was the fading, the melting away into something somehow approaching peaceful.


