He slammed a four-pound maul against the flattened head of the hardened steel chisel
sending a sheet of linoleum across the room like a flying saucer and ten thousand
cockroaches scattering. Time is money, and Drew measured both by the amount of work
he finished. He’d measured the morning by removing plaster and lathe from the second
floor walls with his sledgehammer and crowbar down to its stud skeleton, took a halfhour to refuel with a burrito he bought for lunch at Wawa, and then stripped the linoleum
off the kitchen floor. He figured it was three o’clock. Another hour ripping the sheathing
off of the joists and it would be time to get picked up.
He wedged the chisel in the seam between two sheets of sheathing, wound the
maul over his head and swung with every ounce of restrained fury just as a crash
launched wood molding and pieces of the splintered front door across the room. A brass
hinge slid across the dining room floor followed by four crouched bodies, a gun extended
in front of each of them. Drew cowered in the corner between the refrigerator and the
stove praying with every ounce of his strength to keep his body still. Two of the intruders
disappeared upstairs and one ran through the kitchen and down the cellar steps. The
largest of them walked through the living room fanning his weapon from side to side
making his way into the kitchen. He eyed Drew in the corner and fixed his gun on him.
Drew saw a badge fixed to the guy’s belt and dreaded that he’d just lost his job, his ticket
out of the shelter he lived in off of Broad Street in center city, and if they checked his
papers, deportation.
“Clear!” came from upstairs. “Clear!” came from a female voice in the basement.
The cop in the kitchen motioned with his gun for Drew to stand. “Where’s
Marino?”
Drew shook his head. “I don’t know Marino, Officer.”
The cop rolled his eyes. “Okay, one more time.”
Drew’s voice shook. “A man picks me up in the morning, drops me off, gives me
job, and leaves. He comes back at the end of the day, pays me, drives me back to Home
Depot. Says his name is Guy.”

1

The cop shoved his gun into his holster, and grabbed two hands full of Drew’s
shirt. “Guy?” he laughed. “So that’s way you want to play it?”
Drew squeezed his eyes shut and saw the black of the night when the militia
stormed his home in Sudan, dragged his father into the center of the village with the other
men. He shuddered at the long ago blast their firearms, still felt the hot blood from the
mass execution.
“Relax.” Drew opened his eyes at the sound of the female. She was Hispanic. A
tattoo on her gun wrist. Her face stern in a way that let him know he was okay. “We’re
not Immigration.”
Drew looked into the living room and didn’t see INS on the back of the other
officers’ jackets. He’d never even heard of INS until three months after the election, the
night Gil had taken him to dinner and they raided the shelter. The new President
promised to clamp down on people with a criminal record in the country illegally, but
they herded away his immigrant friends, record or not.
Drew didn’t realize his feet were off the ground until the guy let him go. He took
a deep breath.
“We’re after your boss,” she said. “What’d you say his name is?”
“He tells me his name’s Guy, but I hear him on the phone say ‘this is Tony’ to
whoever he’s talking to.”
“That’s our man,” said the big cop like he’d just won a hand of blackjack. “You
say the asshole drives you home?”
“Yes, Sir.”
“Go stakeout the parking lot,” he shouted to the two guys in the living room, then
turned back to Drew. “Looks like you got the rest of the day off.”
“He owes me pay?” Drew shot back louder than he meant to.
The cop shrugged his shoulders. “I guess Tony fucked you as a going away
present.”
“Fuck that,” said the girl. “What’s he pay you?”
“Thirty a day.”
“Fuckin' dirtball,” said the big guy.

2

“That asshole will be loaded when we grab him,” she said to her partner, then
looked at Drew. “You get time and a half today, Hombre.”
Drew followed them out the door. “How do I get home?”
She looked back at him. “Where do you live?”
“Philly.”
“That dirt bag brings you all the way out here from Philly?”
Drew nodded.
“Sorry, buddy,” said the big guy. “Gonna have to bus it.”
***
Drew trekked an asphalt dessert, white paint outlined thousands of empty parking spaces
separating him from a mall to the distant left. A glass bus enclosure was out on the road
in front of him, and across the road a circus train of strip malls and fast food joints. He’d
always felt safe on the move, ever since the day at fifteen his mother made him flee their
village. The savages had executed all the men, and they started recruiting male children
as boy soldiers, young girls as their sex slaves. She charged him with his little sister to
follow thousands of others, but after four weeks through the scorching dessert Drew,
always the contrarian, veered west while the Lost Boys continued on to Kenya.
He had no idea where the bus would come from or where it would take him, or
even if a bus still traveled this route since the shed was empty. He calculated the
afternoon while he walked: the cops breaking down the door, arresting his boss and then
paying him out of boss’ pocket added up to 4:15. He couldn’t shake Gil’s last words to
him yesterday on their final training run for his first track meet since joining the shelter
running program, 5:30 at Broad and Porter. Don’t be late.
Drew stood in the bus enclosure alone, waiting. His eyes widened when he saw
the marque above a bus windshield coming down the road. The bus slowed and opened
its doors. “You going to Philly?” He shouted up the steps.
“Norristown,” said a sturdy black woman sitting behind the wheel. “Then regional
rail to Center City.” Drew estimated twenty minutes to Norristown, a transfer and
probably another forty-five minutes into town, and then run up Broad Street to meet Gil
at Popular Street. Gil would wait fifteen, maybe twenty minutes.
“I don’t have all day, Honey,” she said.

3

He climbed the steps. “How much?” he asked jiggling the change under the bills
the cops took from his boss.
The doors swooshed closed. She pulled out onto DeKalb Pike, her eyes
alternating from the road to Drew and back to the road. “You a senior?”
Drew smiled at the question, recognizing her singsong West Indies accent, his last
stop on his way to settle in the US. Only a native eye could see the hard years masked by
his fine dark skin and through a countenance that defied the uncounted miles he’d
traveled in life, more than a thousand walking from Sudan through Ethiopia to the Somali
coast, the shortest leg in his long journey.
“No,” said Drew.
The bus slowed at the next stop. “Step aside,” she said corralling him to the side
with her arm to make way for a half-dozen passengers. She closed the doors and pulled
away. “You look like a senior to me, Sweetie,” she said with a wink. “$1.00.”
Drew dropped a dollar in the box, nodded his appreciation and said, “Thank you.”
He walked to a seat in the middle of the bus. It was more difficult for him to tell time
without his built-in timepiece measuring labor against achievement. He reconstructed the
end of his workday adding the time it took to trek from the house he demoed and wait for
the bus and figured it was probably close to 4:30. He still had to make a connection, catch
the train, and a run to meet Gil at 5:30. It would be close.
The bus filled more at each stop, mostly shoppers, a few business people and
students. A businessman in the seat across the aisle from him raised his newspaper in
front of his face and shimmied closer to the window. Drew opened his dirty hands,
brushed plaster dust and grime off his clothes, then nodded at him and smiled.
The bus decelerated and eased into a lot, stopped next to a concrete platform in
front of a rail line. He waited for passengers to file to the front before he got up, then
made his way up the aisle. He stopped at the driver. “You said this train will take me
downtown?”
“Nothing wrong with our memory, Baby,” she said, pointing to the platform.
“You know how long it takes to get to center city?”
“About forty-five minutes, Dear.”

4

Drew walked down the steps looking around and didn’t see a train coming in
either direction. He spotted a billboard in a field of high grass near the edge of the
parking lot, threw his backpack over a shoulder and ran. He ducked behind the billboard,
unzipped his bag and changed into his running gear, then jogged back to the platform and
stood waiting among the growing rush hour crowd.
Air breaks whooshed the train to a stop and when the doors opened commuters
hurried to fill seats in nearby cars. Drew walked through the doors in front of him to a
spot in the aisle, lowered his backpack between his feet and held onto the rail above him.
The train jerked from the station and he closed his eyes, swaying with the list and roll that
reminded him of his voyage across the Mediterranean on boat with a rusted hull. He
never believed life would one day be so easy, standing in the aisle of a train that soldiers
wouldn’t board and usher passengers off to prison, living under a regime so ruthless he
didn’t have time to even grieve the loss his father or to miss his mother. He looked
around at men in suits and women in dresses and wondered if any of them had ever
survived a capsized boat like the one that toppled in a storm ten miles off the coast that
still caused him to wake sweating in the middle of the night thirty years later, flailing his
arms in the corner cot of a shelter on Broad Street desperately searching for his little
sister but instead coming up with a pillow that was a lifesaver he clung to for three days
before a fishing boat rescued him and took him to land, his first stop in a decades-long
odyssey.
A woman bumped into him as she walked to exit. Drew opened his eyes and said,
“Excuse me.” She gave him an indignant look.
It felt about 5:30 to him and even if Gil waited for fifteen or twenty minutes he’d
still never make it in time. Then he remembered Gil mentioning that the track meet was
at 6:00 in Manayunk. He edged to a map by the door and traced the train route with his
eyes. He brightened when he saw Manayunk Station midway to center city. The sign at
the next stop read Main Street. Five stations to go. The train doors closed and it picked up
speed, slowed, more passengers exited. Next stop Conshohocken, a familiar sounding
town on the Schuylkill River, closer to Philadelphia, a lot of hills. Two more stations
passed before the Ivy Hill stop. After people got off and the doors closed he shuffled
closer to the exit. As the doors opened a young woman sitting across from the exit

5

reached down and grabbed her shoulder bag and in a sweeping motion a small black
purse dropped onto the floor as she stood and walked off the train. “Miss,” said Drew but
she didn’t hear him. He ducked between commuters, grabbed the purse and ran after her.
“Miss!” he called. She turned at the moment a thirtyish-looking guy with a short-cropped
beard wearing a black suit grabbed Drew’s shoulder. She looked at Drew holding the
purse toward her and at the guy with a handful of his shirt.
“You dropped this,” said Drew.
“He was trying to rob you!” the guy shouted.
A small crowd gathered, in the center Drew holding the purse toward the girl, the
man towering over them. She looked up at the big guy and in an indignant tone said, “Let
go of him.” She took the purse from Drew and thanked him. “Let me give you
something,” she said, opening the purse.
“No, no, please,” he said, and in the same breath added, “but could you tell me
where the track is?”
“The track? she laughed. “Like a running track?”
Drew laughed. “Yes”
“The only one I know of is on Pechin Street,” she said.
“Could you tell me how to get there?”
“Sure.” He followed her gaze to the other side of the platform and saw nothing
but rooftops. “It’ll be easier if we go down to the street,” she said.
Drew followed her down the stairs and they walked out onto Green Street. She
pointed up a windy hill and said, “Follow this street until you get to Pechin and turn left.
You’ll see a track on a hill a few blocks away. You can’t miss it.”
Drew offered his hand and she extended her’s. He pressed it gently and looking
into her eyes, he said, “Thank you,” then tightened the straps on his backpack and took
off up Green Street. It was his first time in Manayunk, but he knew of its hills from
hearing people talk about The Wall, the steepest hill on the Philly Cycling Championship
route that cyclists compared to grades in the Alps of the Tour de France. He picked up his
pace not knowing that Green Street ran parallel to The Wall just a few streets to his right.
His lungs burned the way they did trekking the highlands of Ethiopia in 100-degree heat.
Drew loved the hills. They were his teacher. He’d attack them chanting, “Make the hills

6

you friend, they will never let you down.” He learned from them that once you acclimate
to altitude, life anywhere is easy. But the thing he loved most about the highlands was the
view.
He came to the street sign for Pechin and looked to his left. On a hill a few blocks
away were red brick grandstands. He broke into a three-quarter sprint that defied the halfmile he’d just run up Green Street, as if the day he’d spent demoing a house, the police
raid and the commute from a distant suburb never happened. A block from the track he
saw Gil’s Jeep in the parking lot and quickened his pace even more.
Volunteers with the homeless running program were mostly students or young
professionals. Drew gravitated toward Gil, a retired roofer. They partnered on long runs
and told one another stories. He’d laugh at Gil’s tales about growing up in an Irish
Catholic neighborhood in Southwest Philly with an Irish pub on nearly every corner, a
world away from being raised in a one-room hut in Sudan. Gil never told Drew that he
did five years at Graterford Prison for running arms to the IRA during The Troubles and
Drew never mentioned the militia. Besides running, neither thought they had anything in
common.
He rounded the fence and when he passed through the gate he spotted his team at
the far end of the track wearing green shirts the running program had given them over
hand-me-down shorts and an assortment of shoes. He broke into a full sprint toward the
huddle of runners, Gil standing in the center filling out the roster. One of the runners
shouted, “Drew!” pointing toward the middle of the track. They all turned and parted to
let him run into the center of the scrum. Out of breath, he leaned over and put his hands
on his knees. A smile widened on his face and he straightened back up. “Sorry I missed
my ride, Mister Gil.”
Gil laughed. “What do you mean, Drew? I just penciled you in at anchor in the
relay.” Anchor, the position reserved or a psychologically fit runner who could not be
intimidated, and one strong enough to chase down a competitor in the final stretch.

7


