Sam stared at his hand. He sat on a wooden chair in the
corner of his living room in the dark. Outside, the
neighborhood, was loud with people. People walked by after a
long day at work, going home to change before heading back out
to a bar to meet with friends. They were tired, but excited.
Filed with promise for the rest of the night. Sam, however, sat
alone in the dark thinking of nothing but the small brown spot
on the back of his hand.
Sam had not spent much time looking at the back of his
hand. He hadn’t studied it, but he recognized the grey/blue
smudge as new. It wasn’t exactly grey/blue more white, but it
wasn’t exactly white either. It had a brownish hugh. It was
small and important and loud and next to his knuckles on his
left hand and it was all Sam could look at.
He alternatively stared at it and then rubbed it with his
right thumb. He rubbed it hoping maybe this time it would come
off. He rubbed it hoping he would find out it was a bit of dirt
from the garden or dust from the day. Maybe he would find out it
was soot from the fireplace. But every time he rubbed the
discoloration stayed.


He first noticed it a few days ago. At first he thought
nothing of it. He thought it would wash off next time he went to
the sink to wash his hands. He thought it would be gone after
the next time he went to the washroom. But the next day it was
still there. -I swear I washed my hands- he thought to himself
-but maybe I didn’t do a very good job.- He went and washed his
hands again but it didn't come off. He tried again and again,
scrubbed harder and harder, but nothing changed.
He thought a lot that day. He thought about illness and
what would happen and what could happen. He thought about life
and work and friends and how they would react. He thought about
how crazy he could get, how worried. He thought it was nothing
but then thought that’s what you think before you find out it’s
something.
Then he thought about the sun and being outside and how
warm the sun is. He thought about her and the time they spent
all day out on that hill. He thought about how she came to him
and asked if he wanted to have an early lunch and she had a
packed picnic ready. He thought about how she showed him her
basket in her hands and looked at him with those large blue eyes
and smiled. He thought about how she had on a sun dress from the
spring time, it had small poke-a-dots and in the light the

3-Sun Spots

fabric would turn ever so slightly transparent. He thought about
how that was all he needed. He called into his boss and told him
he was sick and they went to the hill together.
She held his hand as they walked up the hill towards the
noon sun. The trees dropped away as they climbed and soon they
broke out into the clearing of grasses and small shrubs.
“This looks like a good spot to sit,” she said.
“Yes, yes it does,” he said.
They sat down and she pulled the food. She pulled out bread
and cheese and sliced ham curried with brown sugar and salt. She
pulled out a bottle of wine and slices of watermelon with a
little bit of salt sprinkled on them. They didn’t bother putting
them together, instead eating each ingredient separately with
their hands. They drank the whole bottle of wine and wished they
had a second. Sam didn’t say much, he just looked into her eyes
and tried to speak with his eyes. But the more she drank the
less she could hear them. They sat on the hill in the sun for
hours. The heat made them sweat. They laughed and talked about
nothing and then giggled at their own drunkenness.
“I think perhaps we drank too much,” she said.
“That’s always how you feel, drinking in the sun,” Sam
said.

4-Sun Spots

“The sun magnifies it then.”
“Yes, I guess it does magnify it.”
“It’s wonderful how something so sad during the night can
seem so exciting out in the sun,” she said. And Sam laughed at
her truth.
She smiled big and mischievously. She looked around and
looked back at Sam and said, “We are all alone up here.”
“Yes, yes we are.”
“No one knows we’re here.”
“No I guess no one does.”
“We can do whatever we want,” and she started giggling. She
grabbed her mouth as if she were trying to keep them inside, but
the giggles poured through her fingers. She leaned over and
kissed him on the cheek. She stood up and turned around to face
the sun. The light shown through her dress and Sam could see the
outline of her legs and where the fabric clung to her hips. For
a moment he could not feel his body, only where her wet lips
kissed his cheek.
She looked over her shoulder and smiled a half smile and
slowly unzipped the back of her dress. She pulled it down and
leaned over to pull it down her legs and stepped out of her
dress. She stood back up and unhooked her bra and pulled down

5-Sun Spots

her panties. And then she lay down flat on the grass. She closed
her eyes in the sun and slowly twisted her body in the grass and
cooed.
Sam could not stop watching. He could not move until she
quietly said, “your turn.”
He quickly stood up. He stood up too fast and felt a little
bit faint. He turned around and pulled down his suspenders. He
unbuttoned his shirt and pulled it off over his head with his
undershirt. He unbuttoned his pants and stepped out of them
clumsily. He lay down next to her and closed his eyes as well.
She reached over and grasped his hand.
He remembered the delicate feel of her hand, the sweat
smell of the grass, the sound of birds flying overhead, the heat
off the sun that made him sweat slightly. He remembered while
sitting in the dark, his eyes closed, his thumb rubbing the spot
on his left hand, a smile on his lips, but also tears welling up
in his eyes.
###


