Hank  dropped  wearily  into  the  Adirondack  chair  outside  the  wedding  tent.      He  pulled  
off  his  bow  tie  and  stuffed  it  in  the  pocket  of  his  tux.    Zoe  kicked  off  her  rose  satin  pumps  and  
wiggled  her  toes.    From  inside  they  could  hear  the  band  starting  to  put  away  their  instruments,  
and  the  clatter  of  the  caterer’s  staff  piling  trays,  packing  away  china  and  glassware.  
“Thank  god,  they’re  almost  all  gone,”  Hank  said    
“Well,  that’s  that.    It  was  a  beautiful  wedding.”  Zoe  stretched  her  legs.  He  noticed  the  
run  in  her  stocking.    “Marina  seemed  happy  with  everything.”  
“Why  the  hell  not?    It  cost  enough  to  buy  a  battleship.    Anyway,  I  still  don’t  get  it.    Why  
all  the  hoopla?    They’ve  been  living  together  for  six  years.    Especially  .  .  .”      He  stopped  himself.    
What  was  the  use?  

  

The  night  air  was  cool,  and  a  half  moon  cast  a  soft  light  across  the  lawn.    Hank  sighed.    
“Not  the  wedding  I  always  thought  we’d  make  for  her.    I  need  a  drink.”    With  a  soft  grunt  he  
pulled  himself  out  of  the  chair  and  wandered  into  the  tent,  emerging  a  few  minutes  later  with  a  
half-­‐empty  bottle  of  scotch  and  two  paper  cups.  Zoe’s  eyes  were  closed.    He  stood  for  a  
moment,  looking  at  her.    Still  a  damned  good-­‐looking  woman.      
She  opened  her  eyes,  and  he  handed  her  a  cup.      

“They  packed  all  the  glassware  already.    Would  you  believe  there  are  still  a  few  people  
hanging  out  near  the  bar?    Probably  too  drunk  to  get  up  and  find  their  cars.”  
They  sipped  their  drinks  quietly,  accepting  the  thanks  and  congratulations  of  a  couple  
who  straggled  out  of  the  tent.      Hank  recognized  the  man  as  one  of  the  partners  in  Eliza’s’  law  
firm,  but  couldn’t  remember  his  name.  “Beautiful  wedding,”  the  woman  said.    
“That  Eliza,  she  looked  gorgeous.    Great  couple,”    the  man  said,  The  man,  his  voice  
slurred  with  alcohol  and  fatigue.    He  staggered  a  little  as  they  turned  to  find  their  car.  
Zoe  smoothed  the  skirt  of  her  rose  satin  dress.    There  was  a  dark  splotch  on  the  front,  
like  one  of  those  psychiatry  inkblots.    Oh  well,  Hank  thought,  she  said  she’d  never  wear  it  again.    
Too  mother-­‐of-­‐the-­‐bride.    And  he  sure  as  hell  would  never  put  one  of  these  monkey  suits  on  
again.    The  shiny  rented  shoes  pinched  his  bunions.  
The  caterer  approached  them,  exhaustion  burned  into  his  eyes.    His  white  jacket  was  
flecked  with  food  stains.    “We’re  about  ready  to  pull  out.    I’ll  send  some  of  my  guys  back  for  the  
tent  and  tables  in  the  morning.    I  hope  you  were  pleased  with  everything?”  
Zoe  smiled.  “The  food  was  delicious.    Everyone  raved  about  the  tournedos.”    
The  catered  looked  pleased.    “Eliza  was  great  to  work  with,  she  knows  just  what  she  
wants.    And  she’s  got  good  taste.    She  was  a  beautiful  bride.    And  so  was  .  .  .”  his  hesitation  was  
barely  perceptible,  “the  other  bride.”  
“Yeah,”  Hank  said.    He  wanted  to  be  in  his  bed,  wanted  this  night  to  end.    He  held  out  
his  hand  for  the  piece  of  paper  the  caterer  was  holding.  
“That’s  the  balance.    If  you  don’t  mind,  I’ll  take  a  check  now.    Gotta  cover  the  checks  for  
my  staff.”  

Hank  put  his  cup  on  the  arm  of  the  chair  and  leaned  forward  to  peer  at  the  bill  just  as  
the  lights  went  out.    “Uh  oh,”  the  caterer  said,  “I  hope  they  didn’t  short  anything  out  when  they  
were  packing  up.    I’ve  got  a  flashlight  in  the  truck,  I’ll  get  it.”    Hank  watched  him  walk  away  and  
wondered:    why  do  they  all  have  to  walk  like  that?  
“Christ,  did  you  see  that  bill?    Fourteen  thousand,  after  all  we  already  paid  him.”  
“You  knew  what  it  was  going  to  be,  don’t  make  a  scene.    We’ve  got  the  money,”  Zoe  
said.  He  felt  her  watching  him  nervously  as  the  caterer  came  back,  following  the  beam  of  a  big  
flashlight.  
Hank  took  the  light  and  examined  the  bill.    “Christ.    When  my  wife  and  I  got  married  it  
cost  $2,000  for  everything.    Flowers,  musicians,  everything.”  
“And  Hershey  bars  cost  five  cents  and  beer  was  a  quarter.    That  was  forty  years  ago,“  
Zoe  said.    “And  don’t  forget  to  tell  him  how  you  walked  three  miles  barefoot  in  the  snow  to  get  
to  school.”  
The  caterer  laughed  and  leaned  forward  to  shine  the  flashlight  on  Hank’s  hand  as  he  
wrote  the  check.    Hank  could  smell  garlic  and  something  else,  rosemary,  maybe,  coming  from  
his  skin.    As  he  handed  over  the  check  the  lights  came  back  on.  
“Well,  that’s  over,”  he  said,  as  the  caterer  walked  away.  “Shit,  Zo,  I  didn’t  think  it  would  
be  like  this.”    He  finished  his  scotch  and  refilled  the  paper  cup.  
She  took  a  deep  breath.    “Don’t  go  there.    Not  tonight.”    Through  the  haze  of  alcohol  he  
was  aware  of  tears  slipping  down  her  cheeks.  Zoe  didn’t  cry  often.    He  ticked  off  the  occasions:    
when  her  mother  died,  when  the  doctor  confirmed  that  her  father’s  forgetfulness  was  
Alzheimer’s.    She’d  cried  through  her  perfectly  applied  bridal  makeup,  leaving  trails  on  her  

cheeks  that  made  him  want  to  lick  them  off.  She’d  shed  tears  of  anxiety  when  four  year  old  
Eliza’s  fever  was  so  high  that  she’d  had  a  seizure.    She’d  cried  sitting  on  Laura’s  bed  after  Laure  
left  for  college,  the  closet  emptied,  dresser  drawers  open  with  nothing  but  single  socks  and  torn  
underwear  left  behind.      And  at  Laura’s  wedding.    Why  the  hell  did  women  cry  at  weddings?  
  
Laura  came  out  of  the  house.    “I  can’t  get  the  baby  to  sleep.    Ray’s  walking  her  for  a  
while.  Too  much  excitement,  I  guess,  all  the  new  faces  and  the  music.    How’re  you  holding  up?”    
She  leaned  over  and  kissed  her  mother’s  forehead.    “You  look  gorgeous,  mom.”  
Hank  looked  at  his  younger  daughter.    Laura.    Poor  Laura.    Couldn’t  have  been  much  fun  
being  Eliza’s  younger  sister.    Always  in  her  shadow.    Worked  hard  to  do  things  that  Eliza  just  
tossed  off.    Still,  she  was  crazy  about  her  big  sister.    When  they  were  small,  if  someone  offered  
them  a  new  food,  she  would  ask  “Do  we  like  that,  Eliza?”    Laura  was  usually  picked  last  for  team  
sports;  Eliza  had  trophies  for  soccer  and  swimming.    After  college  she  married  Ray,  a  reliable,  
nice  guy,  maybe  a  little  short  on  humor.    Two  years  later  she  presented  them  with  Marissa,  
who,  Hank  acknowledged  only  to  himself,  was  a  blotchy  baby  with  wispy  hair  sticking  out  from  
her  mostly  bald  scalp  as  if  she’d  had  chemo.    Zoe  thought  she  was  beautiful.  
  
Hank  would  always  remember  the  night  Eliza  had  come  out  to  them.    It  was  a  few  days  
after  she  graduated  from  Penn.    He’d  refused  to  talk  about  it,  other  than  to  say  she’d  get  over  
it,  that  probably  this  was  just  a  reaction  to  a  guy  who’d  shafted  her  or  something  like  that.    But  
Zoe  believed  her  and  wanted  to  understand  better.    He  remembered  Zoe  coming  home  from  a  
meeting  of  PFLAG  and  saying  that  it  had  felt  like  a  pep  rally.  She  read  books  Eliza  had  

recommended,  looked  at  websites  Eliza  had  told  her  about.    At  the  office,  his  door  tightly  
closed,  Hank  ventured  onto  an  internet  chat  room  for  parents  of  gay  men  and  lesbians,  but  was  
turned  off  by  the  self-­‐righteous  response  one  unhappy  mother  got  from  another  who  saw  
herself  as  “evolved.”    He  spent  hours  thinking  about  Eliza  as  a  little  girl,  wondering  if  he’d  been  
a  bad  influence  in  some  way,  tried  to  make  her  too  much  like  him.    In  a  household  of  females,  
where  he’d  quickly  learned  always  to  put  the  seat  down,  he’d  longed  for  someone  to  sweat  out  
Red  Sox  games  with  him,  to  celebrate  when  Rpger  Clemens  was  named  Most  Valuable  Player.    
He  remembered  buying  her  a  catcher’s  mitt  and  hurling  increasingly  fast  balls  as  she  squatted  
on  the  lawn,  the  knees  of  her  jeans  stained  with  grass.    While  Zoe  stayed  at  home  with  baby  
Laura,  he  and  Eliza  had  taken  arduous  hikes,  slugging  down  warm  root  beer  and  eating  peanut  
butter  sandwiches.    He’d  taught  her  how  to  wrestle,  tumbling  around  the  family  room  until  Zoe  
yelled  at  them  to  stop.  And  then,  when  she  was  twelve,  she  had  backed  off,  started  to  take  
more  interest  in  clothes  than  in  baseball.    He’d  hear  her  giggling  secretively  on  the  telephone,  
and  started  to  spend  more  time  in  her  room.    Maybe  he  should  have  tried  harder  not  to    show  
how  disappointed  he  was,  how  lonely  he  felt  without  her  easy  knock-­‐about  presence.  
Yet  everything  he  read  assured  him  that  he  was  not  responsible.    The  books  asserted  
that  if  a  girl  had  the  unqualified  love  of  the  person  who  was  the  most  important  man  in  her  
childhood  it  would  help  her  to  make  a  good  adjustment  as  a  heterosexual  woman.    We’ll,  she  
sure  as  hell  had  gotten  plenty  of  unqualified  love  from  him.    Fat  lot  of  good  it  had  done.  
Sometimes  Zoe  would  complain.    “You  worship  that  child,”  she’d  say.    She  would  urge  
him  to  do  things  with  Laura:    You’ve  got  two  daughters,  Hank.    Well,  he’d  tried.    He’d  played  
endless  games  of  Candyland  and  Chutes  and  Ladders,  followed  by  Monopoly,  at  which  Laura  

had  an  agonizing  time  deciding  which  properties  to  buy.    Mostly  she  wanted  to  play  pretend  
games  like  princess  or  school,  but  after  a  few  minutes  he  would  lose  interest  and  retreat  to  his  
workshop,  claiming  he  had    work  to  do  for  his  latest  project.  
  
“It  was  a  beautiful  wedding,  wasn’t  it,”  Laura  said,  squatting  down  in  front  of  them.    
“You  guys  both  look  wonderful.  And  wasn’t  Eliza  a  gorgeous  bride!”  
“It’s  a  good  thing  the  wedding  wasn’t  a  month  later,  she’d  be  showing,”  Zoe  said.  
Laura  stiffened.    “What  do  you  mean?”  
“Didn’t  she  tell  you?    I  thought  for  sure  you  knew  .  .  .”  
“You’re  saying  she’s  pregnant  and  she  didn’t  even  tell  me?”    
“Oh,  honey,”  Zoe  said,  reaching  for  Laura’s  hand.    “”She  was  so  busy  with  everything—
the  wedding  and  work  and  all  .  .    and  maybe  she  wanted  to  tell  you  in  person.”  
    Laura  stood  up  and  stepped  back  from  them.    “She  could  have  called  or  emailed      She  
must  have  known  we  wouldn’t  have  time  to  talk  before  the  wedding.    And  I  was  having  such  a  
hard  time  getting  the  baby  settled,  and  then  all  the  guests  started  arriving  .  .  .  Damn,  I  wish  
someone  had  told  me.”  
Zoe  rose  and  put  her  arms  around  Laura.    “We’ve  only  known  for  a  week.    Apparently  
they’ve  been  doing  all  this  sperm  bank  research  and  arguing  over  desirable  characteristics.    And  
then  she  said  the  first  try  didn’t  take.”  
Laura  pulled  away  from  Zoe  and    laughed  bitterly.  “You  mean  Eliza  actually  failed  at  
something?    But  I  guess  now  she’ll  produce  a  wonder  baby  with  all  the  right  genes.    The  next  
president,  or  the  person  who’ll  find  the  cure  for  cancer.”  

Hank  could  see  that  Laura  was  on  the  verge  of  crying.    She  turned  and  walked  back  
toward  the  house,  her  shoulders  hunched,  her  arms  wrapped  around  herself.  
“Go  after  her,  Hank,”  Zoe  said.  “How  about  if  for  once  you  reach  out  to  that  girl?”  
He  sighed.    “She’ll  be  all  right.    Eliza  will  talk  to  her  when  she  gets  back  and  make  it  okay.  
I’d  just,  I  don’t  know,  muddy  the  waters.”    He  wanted  to  hold  Laura  and  wipe  her  tears  and  tell  
her  he  was  sorry  he  hadn’t  been  a  better  father.    He  wanted  to  say  it’s  okay,  I  don’t  even  care  if  
Eliza  has  a  boy,  the  boy  I  always  wanted.    I’ll  play  Candyland  with  Marissa  and  read  her  books  
about  fairy  princesses  and  she  can  be  the  mommy  or  the  teacher  or  whatever  the  hell  she  
wants.    I’ll  make  it  up  to  you.    And  if  Eliza’s  son  has  the  genes  of  a  gododam  genius  or  somethin,  
and  he  never  cries  and  throws  a  ball  like  Sandy  Koufax  used  to,  it  won’t  change  anything,  
because  she  broke  my  heart.  
But  he  knew  that  he’d  never  say  those  things,  because  they  weren’t  true.    He  knew  that  
at  some  point  he  would  hold  his  arms  out  to  Eliza  and  tell  her,  come  here,  babe,  and  give  your  
old  man  a  hug.  
  
  


