In the city of Krista everyone has some element afflation,( Those that don't...well no one knows
what happens to them but I here there used as experiments for the Oracles) most are only
secondary elements (or subs as some call them) but primaries are there as well. The All Masters
have control on all the elements; there are only 4 of those. Water Masters have control of water
and Air Masters the Air and so on. There are about 100 Element masters, and about 40 Two
Masters (those Masters that have control of both Primary elements in there sub element). But
none of them can control Light and Dark. The only ones that can control Light or Dark are Them
and never both. Why? No one knows, except the Them and of course the Oracles, but there not
telling. After all if the Masters and anyone else know, the World will be in war again for the
truth of the matter is that the power of the Oracles, that everyone wants to know and learn of, is a
sub element. The Sub element of Light and Dark.
You see subs are looked down on because there not “pure” and must have a support element to
make. But if you need two elements to make one then shouldn’t subs be better? After all no one
knows why some people get one thing or another, and so long as a sub uses an element than you
can master one or both that makes up your sub (that’s why Two Masters can well, master two
elements.) There was a whole war about it. It lasted about 100 years and only stopped because of
Them and there All Masters. That’s why They are the rulers and the All Masters are there
counsel. The Oracles are the Advisers because they can see flashes of the future and there are 5
of them, one from each Country. There are 5 countries that make up the world. Each country has
a primary Element, and has mostly subs that have that element in them. Like how in Hoath most
people have subs that contain Fire (as in Metal, Ash and Steam), Quarter is Air (that has Ice,
Sand and Ash), Aquy is Water (Ice, Steam and Wood) and Meth is Earth (Sand, Metal, and
Wood.) The fifth is A new country They made called Tomleca, where all the masters, Oracles,
there families and the Collage is. The Collage is new and is where the masters teach the students
that want to learn to control an Element go to learn that. The All Masters have 2 Apprentices
each and are always looking for people who might be Oracles.
IT’s far from perfect as we still have subs being used as servants to Primaries, Masters trying to
up one another and be the next Them and people (mostly Masters) trying to find the Alpower and
become it. The alpower is a legend that has control over Time itself, for Time is all and all is
subject to time. Some think They are the alpower but they’re not. No one can control time, just
read it or as the oracles can catch small portions of it in visions, but that’s all. But the main
Question is how do I know this? Because my dad is the oracle of Quarter and I’m expected to be
the next one. But I don’t know if I can. I’m 18 and have as yet had no visions. I am kind of good
with reading the wind but not control it. I hate Earth (as all winds do) and I’m no good with Fire
and can barely swim. I don’t think I’ll be an Oracle or even a sub. But I can talk to shadows and
so I know everything that goes on around me (much to my teachers anger since I can totally
blackmail them) like how dad’s planning to send me to Kea (A school that’s used to find your
element, that only the kids one step from diselement go) if I don’t start to show some form of
element control. But I’ll never tell anyone, there my friends and I don’t betray my friends (for
some reason they don’t want anyone to know about them.) But I know I’ll figure out what to do
and I’ll have my shadow friends with me because shadows are everywhere and their always with
me. Why am I thinking this, to get my thoughts in order. I have Primary school in 5 minuets and
my history class is the first class and I have to give a report about how the world works. But you
know this, so why ask? Your bored?! How can You be board!? Your everywhere!
"Maskta! your up. What have you to say about the world?" Mr. Yema tells me. So up I go to the
front of the class. 'Well lets have some fun....What do you say, Shadows?'


