During the fall of ninth grade Seth’s brother bought us our irst beers. We sat
on the back porch in the sinking sunlight with the evening chill creeping up our arms
and spreading across our shoulders. Sam was the epitome of manliness; a tall
mechanic with jet-black hair and grease smudges on his hands and face. Dirt and
grime folded into each crease of his hands and face. Around him was a cloying halo
of oil-stink.
We drank our beers in the backyard of the blue-gray rental they lived in with
their mom. At the far end of the warped and rotting deck was their ancient mutt,
Buster. I thought that the warm beer tasted of banana, Sam laughed and Seth hit me
in the arm hard enough to leave a bruise. Sam shook his head and lit a hand-rolled
cigarette. Seth and I spent hours trying to copy Sam’s mannerisms, like the way he
leaned back against the side of the house and stared up at some impossibly distant
spot in the darkening sky.
Before their folks divorced they’d lived on an endless list of military bases.
They’d lived a lot of different places. Seth was telling me that there had been some
fallout over an affair. They hadn’t seen their dad in six or seven months, and it didn’t
much bother them. Sam said that their dad was bucket full of dicks as he reached
into his pocket and ished out the cardboard packet of rolling papers. He peeled one
out and opened the big plastic bag of Drum.
“Show us how,” Seth said.
“You’ll fuck it up.”


“We won’t fuck it up,” Seth said.

“It’s how you learn.”
Sam folded his legs up so he was sitting cross-legged and began sprinkling
shredded tobacco into the paper, gingerly rubbing the tobacco between thumb and
fore inger. Sam pinched and squeezed the paper and tobacco until it inally
resembled a cigarette. We studied his technique, the way he started at the center and
worked his way out towards the ends of the paper.
“Ease the shreds so they’re even.”
Sam licked the edge of the paper, barely extending his tongue from his mouth
and moving the paper along his tongue instead of the other way around. When he
was done he picked stray tobacco from the end and wiped his hands on his pants. He
lit the cigarette with a wooden match and licked it out across the yard, where it
arched like a shooting star, lickering out as it disappeared into the crab grass.
“You’ll fuck up the irst few,” he said.
The paper was limsy. I was nervously trying to keep the little envelope of
tobacco even so that nothing spilled. Sam opened another beer and sat there
watching us roll. When I was done with my irst attempt it looked like a little white
turd, scrunched and squished and uneven. Seth hadn’t fared much better, but Sam
didn’t care that we were destroying a half-dozen rolling papers in the process, losing
several cigarettes worth of tobacco through the gaps in the deck.
By the third attempt we had passable cigarettes. Sam smiled and struck a
match, lighting mine, Seth’s, and then his own. It was the irst time I’d smoked a
hand-rolled cigarette. The shreds weren’t packed tight enough so I had to really pull

f

f

f

f

f

f

f

f

f

with my lungs to get any smoke. The earthy lakes coated my tongue.

3
On the other side of the fence I could hear the neighbor’s sprinkler kick on.
There was a ratatata as the water hit the boards, and Buster looked up brie ly and
yawned. The sun went down as we started in on our second beers. Sam said we
could have as many as we wanted as long as we pitched in our ive bucks. The lights
spidered out in front of my eyes..
“You should teach us,” Seth said, “how to pick up girls.”
“You wouldn’t know what to do if you got one,” I said.
“I know how to fuck,” Seth said.
“In theory, I know how to ly a plane,” Sam said.
Sam pushed himself up against the side of the house, effortlessly and
mechanically. Cigarette burns pock-marked the deck in black craters. Seth and I had
gouged curse words into the surface of the wood with our pocket knives. Their
mother either didn’t care or didn’t know about the cursing and drinking and
smoking. My guess was that she didn’t care anymore than my folks did, as long as
we didn’t get in legal trouble.
Since both Sam and Seth’s mom were working that September, Seth had
dinner with us a lot. It wasn’t a big deal, since it was usually Cheesy Mac from the
box that we had to make ourselves. Sometimes we’d throw some hotdogs in the oven
with French fries, canned chili, and cheese. A dish we called White Trash Nachos, but
I can’t remember exactly where we came up with the idea.
As long as we minded our own business and stayed out of my step-dad’s way
we could get away with just about anything. We spent most of our time in the

f

f

f

f

un inished basement playing video games and pawing through my step-dad’s porno

4
magazines. If knew, he didn’t care. The magazines were in a box near the garage
marked “school books” in boxy black letters. Seth and I used to talk about what we’d
do to those imaginary girls if we got the chance. We memorized the lists of things
that they did for fun, fantasizing that if, somehow, we met them, we would be able to
have suave, sophisticated conversations.
In the evenings we’d make our way to Seth’s house and shoot empty beer
cans with his BB gun. The action was a little loose, and as you ratcheted back the
lever it was easy until the split second before the click. Sam had handed the ri le
down to Seth a few years back, saying he’d outgrown it.
While we were standing in the backyard plinking at cans we were both,
unspokenly, waiting for Sam. We could hear that car, a ‘72 Shelby Mustang, coming
blocks away. Buster would perk up from his spot at the end of the deck, heaving
himself up and plodding to the screen door, where he would whimper expectantly.
The engine growl and glasspacks cut through middle class boredom, echoing off of
the chipped paint siding of cinderblock houses. That car, dents and all, was his pride
and joy. Sam spent his days off positioned beneath the car, an old scrap of beige
carpet beneath him, as we kicked at the damp leaves clinging to the cratered
driveway.
“Could teach you about cars,” he said.
“We’re not old enough to drive,” Seth said.
Sam craned his neck out from under the side panel and looked up at us. I felt
strangely small in his presence, but I was hoping proximity was enough for his

f

essence to soak into me. I longed to be grime smeared like Sam; to be sinewy; to

5
have the same sleepy, half-closed eyes he had. Scooching out from underneath the
car, Sam hauled himself up, leaned against the side of his car and began rolling a
cigarette.
There was a night in October that Sam’s girlfriend, Brianna, intruded on our
rituals. Sam and I shared a lust/hate relationship over her. That night Brianna sat on
the deck with us. She was scratching Buster’s ears and drinking beer and rolling
cigarettes in a practiced way that made it seems as though she’d been doing it her
whole life. The air was cool and crisp and the mulch smell of fall was so thick it
nearly overpowered everything else: sweat, grime, beer, and nicotine. That swirl of
smoke cast shadows on our faces. The rain began, shy at irst, but then plucking up
its courage. Cold air was a close second, brushing up against us from what felt like
every direction.
It wasn’t long before it was coming straight down in bullets. Brianna was
huddled in Sam’s faded Carhartt jacket, looking small and girlish. The four of us
crowded under the overhang of the house and sat smoking and laughing. But that
night was the last of it all. Maybe Sam felt like he’d taught us all he could.
He disappeared into that relationship.
And then the Marines.
And Afghanistan.

f

And Death.


