Before political correctness carnivals and fairs had freak shows. I was not allowed to attend. But
one steamy July afternoon my cousin, then a teenager, was allowed to take me, then age nine, to the
Danbury Fair. And to its freak show.
Going to my mother’s hometown, Danbury, Connecticut, in the summertime was like going to a
foreign country. I lived in New York City. For me, Danbury was mystical. There were woods to walk
through, trees to climb, blueberries to pick, Candlewood Lake where I learned how to swim and the
Fair. Fast talking men cut oranges and apples with a gadget like no other – an apple or orange was
peeled in a minute. Children led goats and lambs and horses around corrals. Roller coasters, carousels,
Ferris wheels and trains through scary tunnels were joys and terrors.
Cousin said not to laugh or cry or gulp during the freak show. If I felt queasy I was to “hold it in
until it was over.” I was to squeeze his hand if I felt like I might faint. I didn’t know what faint was.
We handed our tickets to the man in a black top hat. He opened the curtain allowing us into the
miniature arena. A lady with huge blonde hair and mesh stockings under a kind of tutu led us to our
bleacher seats. Drums rolled. An elephant in a red, white and blue dress and kerchief strode across the
stage. On its back a lithe girl who was doing backward somersaults and cartwheels.
Then came the parade of characters that I’ve never forgotten.
The fat lady. She was wheeled into the arena by a thin boy/man. She waved to us, the under
parts of her arms like enormous tubs of Jello. I counted seven chins, the lowest one a mass of flesh fell
on her chest.
The Total Tattooed man walked around flexing his muscles. Every piece of skin, that we could
see, was covered with tattoos. Dragons and demons seemed to me to be the mantra of the tattooed
man.
A girl, not much older than me, a contortionist she was called by the barker. She wriggled her
arms and legs in snake like slithers; she could stand on only her toes for minutes and wrap her legs
around her shoulders.
The hairiest man in the universe walked by, and if I hadn’t heard the barker say he was a man I
would have thought he was an ape, except his head was smaller than the ape pictures I’d seen.
Here came the duck boy. His fingers and toes were webbed. He spread them to show us as he
waddled by. He smiled all the while, this poor kid, I thought.
Behind the boy a couple, hand in hand, skipped in time to the recording of Disney’s Zippity Do
Dah. Today they’re called little people, then they were called dwarfs.

Siamese twin girls in one draped dress, joined at their one spine the barker said, marched along,
their legs and feet not at all clumsy. I thought this must have taken a lot of practice, especially for the
twin who walked backward.
Last came a parade of severely deformed people: a woman with one eye, in the middle of her
forehead; a teenaged boy with no arms, his hands were attached to his shoulders; a woman whose
earlobes reached her shoulders, an African woman whose lips protruded nearly a foot; a man carrying
at attached living blob which had no face, a mermaid carried by her caretaker, said the barker; a girl,
age six, as wrinkled as a scrunched paper bag, a man who had a beard that came to his knees.
I could feel my heart beating through all of this. I remember having to go to the bathroom the
entire time. It was hot in the tent, and my pre-pubescent sweat glands were trying their best to
function. The barker was dressed in white pantaloons and a red, white and blue checkered blouse with
puffed sleeves. He flicked a wand around his head as he introduced the freaks; he called them freaks.
I felt I shouldn’t have been there. I’d been forbidden. Though I liked doing forbidden, I didn’t
like the punishments. My parents never hit or in any other way abused me. They punished by not
allowing me to go out after supper. That hurt as much as a slap. If they discovered Cousin had taken
me to the freak show, I’d be inside that night while everyone else was out there playing Hide and
Seek. But I wanted to ask my parents about freaks. Why were there such beings? Couldn’t doctors
make them normal? It didn’t seem right to charge money to have us go in a tent and gawk at freaks.
Years later I told my parents. My father said most of the freaks were fakes. There’s no such
thing as a mermaid.
But the Siamese twins, the man with the living blob, the big lipped lady and all the others? My
father said it was worse than unkind, it was ghoulish. That’s the word he used. He said freak shows
were banned in most states and that people born deformed were now being surgically helped. My
mother said deformities were detected on sonograms most of the time. I didn’t know about abortion
then. My mother said there were places for people who were unable to care for themselves. I didn’t
know about such places. I don’t remember asking then.
For a long time thereafter I was fascinated by the color photos of intentionally mutilated people
in National Geographic. I’m still fascinated by what people do to themselves – piercings, green hair,
claw like fingernails, nearly naked young people, bejeweled matrons, botoxed women and, once again,
men covered with tattooed. They show them off in public gyms. Why?
I don’t think often of that day at the Danbury Fair, but I’ve not forgotten it.


