There  were  seven  in  the  beginning.    Hiding  in  the  tall  grass  beyond  the  
barbwire,  they  waited.    The  cry  of  the  whistle,  the  moan  of  the  tracks.      Those  sounds  
told  them  it  was  time.    The  train  started  to  move,  but  still  they  waited.    The  station  
had  guards,  men  without  remorse,  men  whose  only  safeguard  from  the  catching  the  
train  themselves  was  their  infliction  of  violence  on  captured  stowaways.    No,  
without  tickets,  there  was  only  one  way  to  board.    As  the  engine  passed  beyond  the  
border  of  the  fence,  someone  yelled  out.    It  was  time  to  catch  the  train.  
  

Jose  broke  cover  from  his  spot  in  the  weeds  and  began  to  sprint.    His  

sneakers  were  two  sizes  too  big  and  were  covered  in  holes.    As  the  soles  of  his  ratty  
Nikes  slapped  the  gravel-­‐lined  tracks,  he  tried  to  ignore  the  pain  he  felt  against  his  
blistered  skin.    He  had  to  run  if  he  was  going  to  make  it.    If  he  missed,  it  could  cost  
him  his  life.  
  

Hector  went  first.    He  was  twenty,  eight  years  older  then  Jose,  and  he  

sprinted  clear  of  the  crowd  in  only  ten  strides.    Hector  claimed  he  played  futbol  until  
he  got  expelled  from  school,  but  Jose  did  not  believe  him.    Someone  who  had  gone  to  
school  would  have  never  needed  to  catch  La  Bestia.    Even  if  he  lied,  Hector  made  the  
jump  like  a  real  athlete,  catching  the  top  rail  cleanly.    He  was  halfway  up  the  car  
before  anyone  else  even  made  it  to  the  tracks.  
  

Jose  watched  as  two  men  he  did  not  know  reached  the  rail  car  and  leapt.    

Both  caught  hold  of  the  railing,  but  neither  with  as  much  confidence  as  Hector.    The  
train  was  picking  up  speed,  and  as  Jose  ran  in  labored  strides,  he  knew  his  time  was  

  

2  

shrinking.    He  pushed  past  two  older  men  and  his  friend  Jesus.    To  catch  the  train,  he  
could  only  think  of  himself.  
  

Right  alongside  the  tracks,  as  rocks  kicked  loose  and  the  ground  shook  from  

the  weight  of  the  tremendous  freight  cars,  the  handholds  seemed  impossibly  high.    
The  Coyote  had  assured  them  that  children  as  young  as  eight  had  made  the  jump,  
but  for  a  moment  Jose  saw  himself  being  thrown  underneath  the  severing  wheels  of  
the  train.    He  would  not  have  been  the  first.  
  

But  he  had  to  try.    There  was  nothing  behind  him,  nothing  but  rail  guards  

chasing  down  stragglers.    Years  on  the  street.    Foraging  from  dumpsters.    The  death  
of  a  young  gangbanger.    Bitter  endings  to  an  untold  story.    La  Bestia  was  a  cruel  
mistress,  but  she  was  the  only  hope  he  had.  
  

Jose  got  even  with  the  railing  and  said  a  prayer  to  Saint  Mary  before  jumping.    

As  he  flew  through  the  air  he  closed  his  eyes  and  reached  out  with  all  his  hope.    His  
body  slapped  against  the  side  of  the  car,  nothing  but  bone  and  sinew,  but  his  hand  
caught  hold  of  the  railing.    Jose  opened  his  eyes  and  pulled  himself  to  safety  as  the  
train  lumbered  on.      
When  he  reached  the  roof  of  the  car  he  looked  back  for  Jesus.    The  two  older  
men  he  had  sprinted  past  had  abandoned  their  efforts,  veering  from  the  track  for  the  
cover  of  the  jungle.    Jesus  had  also  missed  his  opportunity,  but  he  was  not  running.    
As  the  railway  guards  descended  upon  him  he  looked  up  at  Jose  and  smiled.    Their  
clubs  rained  down  upon  Jesus’s  brown  hair  before  Jose  could  scream.    After  that,  
there  were  only  four.  
-­‐-­‐  

  

3  
After  three  days  the  rooftop  of  La  Bestia  had  grown  into  a  miniature  city.    

Every  village  passed,  every  bend  in  the  track  where  the  train  slowed  enough  to  give  
someone  the  chance  to  risk  everything,  their  numbers  had  multiplied.    When  Jose  
first  made  it  up  to  the  roof  of  the  cars,  he  had  been  able  to  walk  from  one  side  of  the  
train  to  the  other.    Now,  overcrowded  and  full,  he  held  onto  his  spot  with  Hector  and  
the  rest  of  their  small  gang.    If  the  train  took  on  any  more  passengers,  he  would  need  
people  to  stand  for  him.  
The  bright  sun  shone  down  on  Jose  and  his  fellow  riders,  a  blessing  from  
above.    It  had  been  frigid  the  night  before.    Jose  had  clasped  his  hands  tightly  against  
his  brown  skin,  shaking  in  the  wash  of  cool  night  air.    The  sun  was  such  a  relief  that  
he  felt  himself  grinning  from  ear  to  ear.    He  was  on  La  Bestia.    His  life  could  only  go  
forward  from  there.  
Looking  through  his  plastic  rucksack,  Jose  did  a  quick  inventory  of  his  
dwindling  supplies.    In  Vera  Cruz  he  would  have  the  chance  to  resupply,  but  that  
was  still  one  more  day  of  travel.    If  he  carried  any  more  with  him  he  knew  he  could  
have  Hector  trade  for  food,  but  as  it  was,  he  would  part  with  nothing  he  held.  
A  half-­‐liter  of  water.    Some  plantain  chips.    Spoiled  rice  that  a  dog  would  not  
eat.    Necessities  for  life  that  Jose  could  not  forgo.    Besides  those  things,  his  bag  held  
very  little.      
Jose  ran  his  hand  along  his  mother’s  rosary  beads,  the  only  physical  proof  he  
had  left  from  the  woman  who  had  brought  him  into  the  world.    They  were  worn  
smooth,  wooden  totems  that  carried  the  worries  of  the  world.    They  never  made  

  

4  

things  better  for  Jose,  but  when  he  held  them  and  looked  up  at  the  stars,  he  could  
pretend  that  his  mother  still  thought  of  him.      
Besides  the  rosary  beads,  Jose  carried  one  more  item  in  his  bag.    It  was  his  
most  cherished  possession,  one  he  knew  he  could  trade  for  better  food  whenever  he  
wanted,  but  the  one  thing  he  kept  as  his  own.    It  was  a  baseball  cap,  but  not  just  any  
cap.    It  was  a  New  York  Yankees  cap!  
Even  a  gutter  rat  knew  about  the  Yankees.    Jose  had  gotten  it  nine  months  
before  from  an  aide  worker  stationed  in  his  village.    An  American,  some  gringo  with  
blue  eyes  and  teeth  so  white  they  sparkled,  not  silver  or  rotted  like  most  men  his  
age.    He  had  seen  Jose  sifting  through  the  garbage  behind  a  food  co-­‐op,  and  instead  
of  throwing  rocks  at  him  or  turning  him  over  to  the  police,  he  had  stopped  and  
spoken  to  him  like  he  was  a  real  person.    He  knew  Spanish,  but  he  spoke  in  such  a  
clean  way  that  Jose  had  to  concentrate  to  understand.      
The  gringo  did  not  have  much  to  say,  but  when  he  asked  Jose  if  he  had  any  
family,  he  unintentionally  entered  a  world  so  far  removed  from  his  own  that  the  
truth  of  life  pierced  his  heart.    Jose  had  noticed  his  ball  cap  right  away,  but  when  the  
gringo  reached  up  and  removed  it,  Jose  was  so  shocked  he  lost  all  words.  
“Take  it.    It  doesn’t  really  fit  me.    Besides,  someone  who  smiles  so  big  for  the  
Yankees  deserves  this  hat  more  then  me.”  
Thinking  about  the  gringo,  Jose  ran  his  hand  over  the  clean  seams  and  the  
grey  and  white  lettering.    The  gringo  was  back  in  America,  a  land  so  rich  that  you  
could  give  away  a  hat  without  blinking  an  eye.    La  Bestia  was  taking  him  there,  and  

  

5  

Jose  dreamed  that  soon  he  too  would  have  enough  hats  to  share  with  all  the  street  
rats  in  the  world.  
-­‐-­‐  
The  next  day,  as  the  train  rolled  into  Vera  Cruz,  La  Bestia  became  a  hive  of  
excitement.    Las  Patronas,  the  female  saints,  would  be  waiting  for  the  passing  
migrants.    The  exodus  of  La  Bestia  had  started  as  all  great  movements  do,  slow  and  
unnoticed,  but  as  the  northward  migration  of  desperate  way  seekers  blanketed  the  
roofs  of  rail  cars,  some  people  were  forced  to  do  more  then  look  away.    Those  early  
rides  had  lost  so  many  pilgrims  to  starvation  and  dehydration.    Since  then,  Las  
Patronas  had  done  what  they  could.  
Hector  had  convinced  Jose  to  let  him  hold  him  out  over  the  edge  of  the  train  
car  to  get  a  better  vantage.    Shacks  and  roofless  concrete  building  marked  the  edge  
of  town,  and  Jose  wondered  how  the  saints  of  Vera  Cruz  could  afford  to  help  people  
like  him.    Vera  Cruz  looked  exactly  like  the  place  he  had  left  behind,  but  Hector  
promised  they  would  come.  
Leaning  out  as  Hector  held  onto  his  shirt,  Jose  peered  ahead.    La  Bestia  was  
almost  half  a  mile  long,  and  although  their  car  was  near  the  middle,  he  could  see  
nothing  further  then  the  overgrown  embankments  and  potholed  streets.    A  cry  from  
the  front  of  the  train  was  the  first  signal  that  something  had  changed,  and  as  Hector  
shook  Jose’s  shirt  for  information,  Jose  shrieked  for  fear  of  being  let  go.  
When  Hector  jerked  him  back  onto  the  car,  Jose  was  shaking  so  bad  he  had  
lost  his  excitement  over  Las  Patronas.    The  screams  of  anticipation  from  the  riders  
grew  louder  and  louder,  but  Jose  did  not  move.    Only  when  Hector  punched  him  in  

  

6  

the  arm  did  he  realize  that  if  he  wanted  to  resupply  his  meager  food  bank  he  needed  
to  spring  into  action.    Turning  back  towards  the  city,  Jose  saw  crowds  of  women.  
The  saints  of  Las  Patronas  were  dressed  in  white,  matching  red  scarves  
adorning  their  heads.    Some  had  small  children  tucked  besides  their  flowing  dresses  
while  others  stood  alone,  their  children  long  gone  into  the  cold  and  lonely  world.      
The  train  slowed  as  it  passed  through  town,  and  as  it  did,  the  women  of  Vera  
Cruz  took  out  their  sacks  of  mercy.    Bags  of  rice  and  beans,  bottles  of  water,  and  
other  instruments  of  compassion  were  thrown  without  requirement.    Each  bag  that  
flew  through  the  air  elicited  a  cry  of  joy  from  the  riders.    Jose  felt  his  fellow  
passengers  push  and  jostle  for  position,  reaching  out  for  the  bags  of  food  and  water.      
Jose  stood  at  the  edge  of  the  crowd,  but  his  position  on  the  brink  of  the  
rooftop  gave  him  little  comfort.    Pushing  with  his  backside  as  hard  as  he  could,  he  
dug  his  heels  in  and  looked  out  at  the  crowd.    Although  he  was  tall  for  his  age,  most  
of  the  riders  surrounding  him  were  full-­‐grown  men.    The  other  children,  the  ones  
who  rode  with  families  or  the  ones  like  Jose  who  rode  alone,  relented  and  prayed  
that  their  fellow  passengers  would  be  merciful  and  share  their  bounty.    Hector  had  
told  Jose  that  it  was  three  more  days  to  the  border,  and  Jose  had  learned  enough  
from  life  to  understand  that  relying  on  the  mercy  of  others  was  not  only  foolish,  it  
was  dangerous.    He  had  to  catch  one  of  the  bags  of  food.      
The  cries  from  the  front  of  the  train  were  dying  off,  and  as  Jose  looked  out,  he  
saw  that  the  giving  crowd  was  thinning.    In  desperation,  each  bag  that  was  thrown,  
each  sack  of  rice  that  sailed  through  the  air,  was  fought  over  with  increasing  
severity.    Jose  saw  Hector  elbow  an  old  man  in  the  face,  breaking  his  nose  as  he  

  

7  

captured  his  third  bag.    He  did  not  know  if  he  could  be  that  ruthless,  but  he  knew  he  
needed  to  act.  
Letting  the  crowd  push  him  to  the  very  edge  of  the  car,  Jose  tried  to  lock  eyes  
with  one  of  the  women.    Between  the  edge  of  the  train  and  where  he  stood  was  a  
fraction  of  an  inch,  but  Jose  knew  that  his  only  chance  was  to  catch  a  bag  thrown  
lower,  one  thrown  to  a  spot  where  only  someone  as  young  as  him  could  catch  the  
life  saving  gift.    He  looked  twenty  yards  ahead  of  his  car  and  saw  a  lone  woman  
standing  clear  of  the  crowd.    She  held  only  one  bag  of  supplies,  but  as  she  looked  up  
at  the  pilgrims,  Jose  saw  tears  in  her  eyes.    No  children  stood  beside  her,  and  
although  he  could  not  be  certain,  Jose  doubted  any  child  ever  had.    The  woman  
caught  eyes  with  Jose,  and  as  he  nodded  his  head  and  pleaded  for  mercy,  she  held  
her  bag  aloft.    With  his  right  arm,  Jose  reached  back  and  grabbed  onto  a  stranger.    
Using  the  man  as  an  anchor,  he  leaned  out  over  the  edge.    She  waited  until  his  car  
was  right  beside  her  before  throwing  her  bag.      
Jose  felt  the  crowd  behind  him  heave  and  buck,  but  the  woman  threw  her  bag  
with  purpose.    His  hand  clasped  down  on  the  mesh  sack,  and  he  pulled  himself  back  
from  the  edge.    Jose  had  just  enough  time  to  look  back  before  being  swallowed  into  
the  crowd,  but  when  he  did,  the  woman  who  had  saved  him  was  gone.  
-­‐-­‐  
Two  days  later,  tragedy  struck.    North  of  Vera  Cruz,  one  day  shy  of  the  
border,  the  train  crossed  into  the  great  desert.    The  Sonoran  furnace  blazed  down  
upon  the  shelterless  riders.    Jose  and  most  of  the  other  young  men  had  taken  off  
their  shirts  and  tied  them  around  their  heads,  but  that  provided  little  comfort.    

  

8  

People  became  disoriented,  and  the  metal  roof  got  so  hot  it  drew  blisters.    Elderly  
riders  collapsed,  and  a  still  fell  over  the  riders  of  the  train.    It  was  only  a  matter  of  
time  until  something  happened.  
Jose  was  trying  to  close  his  eyes,  his  head  pounding  from  the  heat,  when  he  
heard  the  scream.    Two  cars  down,  a  young  couple  down  began  shouting  in  frantic  
tones.    Exhausted  from  the  heat,  no  one  stirred  to  investigate,  but  everyone  did  look  
up.    As  the  screams  became  clearer,  it  was  obvious  what  had  happened.  
A  child.    How  old,  Jose  would  never  discover.    Hector  had  gambled  with  
members  of  their  posse  about  when  someone  would  fall,  when  an  elderly  rider  
would  collapse  to  never  rise  again,  but  no  one  had  counted  on  the  first  death  aboard  
La  Bestia  to  be  a  child.    Later,  Jose  learned  that  it  had  been  a  little  girl,  the  couple’s  
one  and  only.    They  had  boarded  shortly  after  Vera  Cruz,  and  despite  being  well  
supplied,  the  desert  had  been  an  unmerciful  host.    While  her  parents  had  rested,  
covering  their  heads  and  praying  for  respite,  a  mirage  on  the  horizon  had  caught  the  
little  girls  eye.    America  was  the  mirage  they  all  sought,  but  lost  in  the  delusion  of  
heat,  she  grew  tired  of  waiting.    She  stepped  between  two  railcars  without  a  peep,  
never  quite  reaching  what  it  was  she  sought.    By  the  time  her  parents  realized  she  
was  gone,  there  was  nothing  left  to  do.  
There  was  a  second  cry  as  the  last  car  passed  over  the  girl’s  remains.    It  was  a  
disturbing  image,  but  with  Hector  laughing  and  describing  what  he  imagined,  Jose  
struggled  to  clear  his  mind.    He  prayed  that  it  had  been  fast.    Mercy  only  goes  so  far,  
but  a  quick  death  was  not  too  much  to  ask.  
-­‐-­‐  

  

9  
Riders  began  abandoning  the  train  the  day  La  Bestia  was  due  to  reach  the  

border.    At  the  final  station,  guards  would  once  more  examine  the  train  and  all  its  
contents.    La  Bestia  had  done  her  job  in  getting  them  there.    Now,  it  was  time  for  
them  to  do  the  rest.  
Jose  and  his  gang  did  not  want  to  exit  the  train  too  early,  stranding  
themselves  unnecessarily  before  attempting  a  crossing.    Instead,  they  waited  until  
they  could  see  Juarez  city  limits.    As  he  had  done  one  week  before,  Hector  led  by  
example,  climbing  down  the  railings  and  leaping  to  the  graveled  embankment.    He  
hit  the  ground  running,  but  even  in  the  height  of  youth,  the  train’s  speed  was  too  
great.    He  tucked  and  rolled  three  times  before  slowing.    Everyone  looked  back  to  
see  if  he  was  hurt,  but  as  Hector  rose,  white  dirt  shedding  from  his  shoulders,  Jose  
realized  that  it  was  going  to  take  much  more  then  that  to  touch  Hector.  
Jose  decided  to  go  second,  not  wanting  to  lose  courage.    Following  Hector’s  
example,  he  lowered  himself  to  the  last  railing  and  pushed  away  with  all  his  might.    
Jose’s  feet  never  touched  the  ground,  but  as  he  hit  the  ground,  he  knew  that  he  had  
cleared  the  tracks.    By  the  time  he  was  back  on  his  feet  Hector  had  caught  up  with  
him,  laughing  at  his  fall.  
They  continued  along  the  tracks,  catching  up  with  one  rider  after  another  as  
they  walked.    Eventually  the  train  got  so  far  ahead  of  their  small  group  that  Jose  
could  no  longer  see  it.    It  had  carried  him  across  a  continent,  and  had  left  him  
without  a  thought.    He  was  about  to  ask  Hector  what  his  plan  was  for  crossing  when  
they  saw  a  lone  figure  lying  besides  the  track.  

  

10  
Jose  could  hear  the  man’s  screams  long  before  reaching  him.    When  they  

were  closer,  he  saw  that  it  was  a  stranger,  a  man  he  had  never  before  seen.    The  man  
was  writhing  in  pain,  and  as  Jose  jostled  for  position,  he  saw  the  man’s  leg.    
Something  had  gone  wrong  in  his  jump,  and  Jose  saw  the  man’s  bone  piercing  
through  his  shin.    The  wound  was  slick,  his  paints  stained  crimson  red,  and  between  
the  man’s  cries  and  the  smell  of  the  blood,  Jose  wanted  to  wretch.  
The  man  begged  for  help,  but  as  the  minutes  slipped  by,  Jose  started  to  
realize  the  truth.    With  no  one  else  coming  behind  them,  there  was  nothing  they  
could  do.    Jose  asked  if  they  should  leave  water,  but  Hector  scolded  him,  saying  if  he  
wanted  to  leave  his  own  supplies  behind  he  could  be  the  fool.    As  the  man  started  to  
realize  his  sentence,  he  lashed  out,  cursing  those  who  would  leave  him.      
And  one  by  one  they  did.    The  group  marched  on,  but  Jose  lagged  behind,  
hoping  for  some  way  to  save  the  day.    When  he  was  the  only  one  left,  the  injured  
man  cursed  him  as  well,  telling  him  to  leave  him  to  die.    Jose  did  not  want  to  
abandon  him,  but  with  so  few  chances,  he  knew  he  had  none  to  spare.    Jose  ran  to  
catch  up  with  his  gang,  never  turning  back.    There  was  nothing  behind  him.    There  
had  to  be.  
-­‐-­‐  
Skirting  Juarez  city  limits,  the  small  gang  discussed  what  they  planned  on  
doing  in  America.    Every  one  was  older  then  Jose,  and  many  of  the  young  men  had  
family  and  jobs  waiting  for  them.    They  talked  about  places  called  Denver,  Garden  
City,  Tucson.    Those  names  were  just  blank  spaces  on  the  map  for  Jose.    For  him,  
America  was  a  singular  idea,  a  place  so  much  better  then  where  he  came  from  that  it  

  

11  

did  not  matter  where  he  ended  up.    His  hopes  and  dreams  had  centered  on  reaching  
America.    They  never  went  further  then  there.  
As  the  last  rays  of  the  setting  sun  abandoned  them  to  the  dust  and  the  
sagebrush,  everyone  began  talking  about  how  they  would  cross.    None  of  the  young  
men  had  enough  money  for  a  Coyote,  but  they  did  have  plans  about  where  they  
would  enter.    Hector  had  an  uncle  who  had  written  him  with  instructions,  and  so  he  
took  the  lead  in  planning.    The  crossing  was  fifteen  miles  north  of  the  city,  a  
forgotten  point  of  the  world  where  only  desperate  souls  would  venture.    The  hike  
was  seventy-­‐five  miles  through  barren  desert,  and  as  Hector  described  the  journey,  
the  group  fell  silent  as  they  weighed  whether  or  not  they  had  enough  supplies  to  
survive  the  passage.  
One  by  one  the  young  men  made  their  decisions.    They  had  not  come  so  far  to  
turn  back,  and  if  they  had  survived  La  Bestia,  then  another  seventy-­‐five  miles  would  
be  nothing.    Jose  was  thrilled  that  he  would  be  making  the  crossing  with  his  new  
brothers,  but  as  he  got  ready  to  follow  the  group,  Hector  told  him  he  needed  to  wait.  
Jose  was  confused  by  Hector’s  direction,  but  when  he  stopped,  the  rest  of  
their  friends  backed  off  to  give  them  space.    Jose  asked  why  they  were  delaying,  but  
Hector  could  only  shake  his  head.  
“This  is  where  your  journey  ends  little  brother.    We  need  as  much  water  as  
we  can  carry,  and  you  are  only  going  to  slow  us  down.”  
Too  late,  Jose  realized  what  the  others  had  known  for  days.    Hector  had  
protected  him,  made  him  feel  like  he  had  a  friend,  but  he  had  only  done  those  things  

  

12  

so  that  Jose  would  carry  goods  for  him.    A  mule.    Less  then  a  mule.    His  purpose  
served,  it  was  time  to  be  discarded.      
Jose  felt  hot  tears  brim  in  his  eyes,  but  he  could  not  give  up  hope.    He  begged  
for  Hector  to  take  him,  saying  he  wouldn’t  even  notice  he  was  there,  but  Hector  had  
made  up  his  mind.    He  told  Jose  to  give  him  his  rucksack,  but  as  he  reached  for  the  
bag,  Jose  jerked  it  from  his  hands.  
Hector  did  not  like  Jose’s  show  of  defiance,  especially  in  front  of  his  new  
gang.    He  asked  only  once  more  before  punching  Jose  in  the  stomach,  knocking  him  
to  the  ground.    Jose  held  onto  his  bag  as  tightly  as  he  could,  but  eventually  Hector’s  
strength  was  too  great.    He  lost  hold  of  his  bag,  crying  in  the  dust  as  he  did.  
Hector  rifled  through  Jose’s  meager  possessions,  not  wanting  to  dally  before  
abandoning  him.    He  threw  him  his  mother’s  rosary  beads  and  a  bag  of  rice.    When  
Jose  saw  Hector  pull  out  the  Yankee  cap,  his  heart  broke  in  two.  
“Turn  yourself  in.    This  is  a  bad  place  for  a  kid.    They  will  find  you  a  job  or  
ship  you  back,  but  at  least  you  will  be  alive.    I’m  sorry.    It  had  to  be  done.”  
Hector  turned  his  back  as  he  jogged  to  catch  up  to  his  friends.    In  the  evening  
twilight,  Jose  could  make  out  the  white  lettering  of  the  Yankee  cap.    The  hat  
highlighted  Hector’s  silhouette  as  he  departed,  abandoning  Jose  for  the  land  of  hope  
and  dreams.    Jose  was  crushed,  everything  he  had  and  everything  he  wanted  gone  in  
an  instant.    Looking  after  Hector,  he  watched  as  he  drifted  into  the  night.    After  a  
minute,  it  all  faded  to  dark.  
-­‐-­‐  

  

13  
By  his  second  day  in  Juarez,  Jose  wished  for  nothing  more  then  a  swift  end  to  

his  miserable  life.    He  wandered  in  circles,  but  the  further  he  traveled,  the  more  lost  
he  became.    So  close  to  where  his  dreams  ended,  Jose  knew  he  might  as  well  have  
been  on  the  moon.  
Hector  had  told  him  to  turn  himself  in,  but  as  Jose  wandered  the  dirty,  
mangled  streets,  he  saw  children  as  young  as  him  and  younger,  wandering  the  same  
helpless  tracts.    Juarez  was  full  of  children  like  him.    There  was  nowhere  to  go,  no  
one  to  take  him  in.    Jose  had  traded  one  slum  for  another,  one  shortened  life  for  the  
same.  
As  he  tried  to  decide  what  to  do  next,  Jose  could  not  help  but  notice  the  pulse  
of  traffic  flowing  through  the  city.    Like  magnetism,  cars  and  people  were  pulled  
north.    Jose  knew  the  border  was  close,  closer  then  it  had  ever  been,  but  he  had  no  
money,  and  he  had  no  plan.    If  he  was  to  go  to  the  border,  he  knew  he  had  only  one  
course  of  action.  
Jose  was  not  special.    He  was  not  the  first  brave  child  to  cross  the  wilderness.    
La  Bestia  was  an  artery,  a  main  vein  for  refugees  flowing  unchecked  into  the  
Promised  Land.    He  had  seen  fifteen  boys  before  him  attempt  the  journey,  and  had  
seen  half  as  many  returned  after  turning  themselves  in.    Crossing  the  footbridge  and  
begging  for  mercy  from  border  guards  was  a  method  that  had  become  as  popular  as  
any  other.    Jose  knew  it  would  result  in  food  and  a  place  to  stay,  but  for  how  long  he  
did  not  know.    Half  of  the  young  men  who  had  taken  that  gamble  had  been  returned  
home.    But  that  was  only  half.  

  

14  
It  took  two  days  to  cross  the  city.    Jose  ran  out  of  food,  drank  water  from  

alleyway  spigots,  and  was  chased  by  a  gang  of  boys  half  his  age.    But  he  never  
faltered,  because  the  closer  he  got,  the  more  hope  he  felt  that  he  might  be  one  of  the  
lucky  ones.    It  was  late  afternoon  when  he  finally  made  his  way  to  the  crossing,  the  
setting  sun  reflecting  off  of  the  Rio  Grande  in  waves  of  yellow  and  orange.    Jose  
could  see  America,  but  he  was  still  a  world  away.  
A  line  of  cars  snaked  back  for  nearly  a  mile  as  Jose  walked  along  the  crowded  
sidewalks.    Beggars,  shades  of  human  beings,  clung  to  vehicles  whenever  anyone  
opened  up  their  window  to  try  and  help  just  one  person.    Jose  saw  a  man  with  no  
legs  being  drug  behind  a  minivan,  clinging  to  the  bumper  and  crying  as  he  screamed  
for  food.    Centered  in  humanities  weigh  station,  even  though  he  was  alone  and  only  
twelve  years  old,  no  one  batted  an  eye.      
As  he  made  his  way  to  the  footbridge,  signs  in  English  and  Spanish  marked  
with  ominous  red  lettering  covered  nearly  every  patch  of  earth.    Jose  could  not  read,  
but  as  the  numbers  of  hopeful  souls  around  him  dwindled,  he  felt  confident  of  the  
message.      
A  pair  of  drunken  Americans  stumbled  before  him,  passports  in  their  tainted  
hands.    One  of  them  looked  back  at  Jose,  but  when  he  spoke  in  slurred  words,  Jose  
gave  no  reply.    The  American  shrugged  his  shoulders  before  turning  back  to  his  
friend.    
Jose  waited  until  the  American’s  had  crossed  before  taking  his  turn.    The  sun  
had  dipped  below  the  horizon,  and  the  evening  lights  of  the  El  Paso  skyline  began  to  
kick  on  in  waves  of  yellow  and  white.    Jose  fixed  his  gaze  upon  the  tallest  building  he  

  

15  

had  ever  seen  as  he  began  to  walk.    He  did  not  look  in  front  of  him,  only  up  at  the  
unending  sky.    Closer  and  closer  to  the  guards  at  the  end  of  the  footbridge,  Jose  
ignored  their  calls.    He  focused  only  on  the  sound  of  his  feet  on  the  metal  bridge  and  
on  the  lights  shining  out,  showing  him  the  way.    When  he  made  it  to  the  soldiers  in  
their  thick,  bulletproof  vests,  Jose  fell  to  his  knees  and  begged  for  mercy.  
-­‐-­‐  
      Two  days  in,  Jose  tried  to  temper  his  hope.    The  guards  on  the  bridge  had  
known  little  Spanish,  but  Jose  had  been  able  to  tell  them  enough  to  get  them  to  take  
him  into  custody.    A  translator  at  the  detention  center  had  taken  his  name  and  his  
age.    When  he  finished  the  questionnaire,  he  was  given  a  change  of  clothing  and  the  
best  meal  he  had  even  eaten.  
The  center  was  full  of  children.    Although  all  of  the  occupants  spoke  Spanish,  
there  was  little  dialogue  between  the  hopeful  prisoners.    People  banded  together,  
keeping  their  circles  tight.    Since  not  everyone  was  going  to  get  in,  it  was  best  to  
increase  your  odds.  
Jose  tried  to  start  conversations  with  other  boys,  but  besides  their  similar  
backgrounds,  there  was  little  to  talk  about.    The  only  thing  anyone  wanted  to  discuss  
was  what  happened  next.    That  was  a  difficult  topic,  because  anytime  guards  came  
and  escorted  out  a  waiting  soul,  they  never  returned.  
        One  week  later,  after  the  cycle  of  life  had  begun  to  bear  on  itself,  guards  
finally  called  upon  Jose.    Every  morning  he  had  showered,  combed  his  hair,  and  
brushed  his  teeth  as  clean  as  he  could,  believing  that  good  impressions  and  wanting  
something  bad  enough  would  convince  whoever  he  needed  to  let  him  stay  in  

  

16  

America.    When  the  guard  came  to  get  him,  Jose  was  ready  to  plea  his  case  and  enter  
his  new  home.    He  walked  past  the  other  immigrants,  beaming  as  he  pictured  his  
new  home.  
The  room  Jose  was  taken  to  resembled  the  same  one  he  had  been  questioned  
in  upon  arrival.    Jose  waited  until  he  was  asked  to  take  a  seat,  but  sat  down  gladly  as  
he  prepared  for  what  came  next.  
After  fifteen  minutes,  an  older  woman  Jose  had  not  seen  before  came  in  with  
a  slim  folder.    She  dismissed  the  guard,  and  then  greeted  him  in  perfect  Spanish.    Her  
accent  was  so  slight  that  Jose  asked  her  if  she  was  from  outside  the  country,  but  the  
woman  told  him  that  she  was  not.    She  then  looked  at  Jose  with  a  glance  he  had  seen  
before.  
“Jose,  I  am  here  to  inform  you  that  your  deportation  papers  have  been  
processed  and  approved  by  a  local  judge.    After  our  meeting,  you  will  be  placed  on  a  
bus,  taken  to  the  border,  and  turned  over  to  Mexican  authorities.    Since  you  do  not  
have  a  passport  you  will  be  processed  and  returned  to  your  country  of  origin.    I  
regret  to  inform  you  of  this,  but  unfortunately,  there  is  nothing  we  can  offer  you  at  
this  time.”  
Crushed,  the  deathblow  set  in  slowly  for  Jose.    The  slow  cut  digs  deepest,  and  
as  Jose  sat  back  in  chair,  he  was  too  broken  to  cry.    The  woman  in  front  of  him  only  
looked  at  him  for  a  moment  before  closing  her  folder.    When  she  did,  she  motioned  
for  the  guard  to  reenter  the  room.      

  

17  
Jose  was  too  defeated  to  act.    He  could  have  run,  but  where  would  he  have  

gone.    He  had  traveled  across  a  continent,  had  risked  everything  to  come  to  America,  
and  was  being  dismissed  without  regard.    
The  woman  stood  and  made  her  way  to  the  door,  but  as  the  guard  came  and  
placed  his  hand  upon  Jose’s  shoulder,  she  stopped.    Years  of  denial,  eons  of  ending  
dreams.    Whatever  it  was  that  broke  through  her  shell,  something  caused  the  
woman  to  turn.    She  looked  back  at  Jose  for  a  moment,  considering  what  had  led  him  
to  her.  
“When  you  go  home,  what  will  you  do?    Will  you  stay  with  your  family?    You  
must  know  there  is  nothing  better  here.”  
Jose  had  given  in,  but  as  he  listened  to  the  woman’s  words,  he  considered  her  
question.    It  only  took  him  a  moment  to  answer.    It  was  the  answer  he  had  held  his  
entire  life.  
“I  have  no  family.    I  have  no  home.    There  is  not  one  person  in  the  entire  
world  that  loves  me.    Where  I  come  from,  I  am  less  then  an  animal.    You  ask  what  I  
will  do?    What  would  you?”      
“What  would  you?”  
  

The  End  
  
  
    
  

  
  

18  
  


