Families strolling along the beach in the evening occasionally stopped at the edge
of the ocean during a full moon. They were not looking out to sea but toward a
particular beach house. There was a rather fat man on his balcony jumping up
and down looking like he was reaching to catch something or dancing. Most of the
beach walkers thought he had too much to drink. They would stare and then
resume their stroll with some laughing a bit, some smiling, and some, shaking
their heads.
The New Jersey shore in the summer can be almost magical and for Leo, it was
the perfect setting to reminisce. He was sitting on the porch of his beach house
and he could smell the sea air with the moon shining on the sand and water. It
served as a giant white canvas, which Leo filled with past memories. His friend,
Jacks, was coming to visit him. He took a long draw from the joint he was
smoking, looked up at the stars and laughed about starting life with an alcoholic
mother and a degenerate gambler father. Here he was at his Avalon shore house
he purchased with his proceeds from his Philly real estate investments. He
believed he was enjoying himself in his shore paradise because of one man’s
unintentional action. Jacks was the magic, the trigger that changed his life.


Leo was very stoned, he laughed aloud at the insanity of life. He took a deep drag
on the joint he held and then drank from a glass of Scotch in his other hand. He
had faith that whatever he did, it would work out. He sank into his lounge chair
and closed his eyes. He let the memory of his favorite teenage event wash over
him. “Magic, magic”, he whispered into the sea breeze.
Leo and Jacks were a year out of Father Judge High School. It was 1972 and the
Viet Nam war was still raging. LSD, pot, hash, speed, coke and heroin were the
drugs of the day. Leo worked as a driver for the local drug dealer, Dealer Dave.
Dave did drug deals at times behind a 7/11 store. The lot behind the store had
two rusted abandoned cars where Dave hid his drugs during the day. Cops let him
be unless they wanted money and when they wanted it, he paid them.
Leo and Dave were to make a drive to Kensington to score Pot and Meth from
their supplier. Leo was leaning against the wall of the 7/11 smoking a Marlboro,
drinking a Coke, and looking out to the street. He looked for potential buyers who
wanted to score because he knew where the drugs were and he was able to do
deals while pocketing some cash while Dave was buying smokes in the 7/11. Dave
was using his wares so much so at the end that he became sloppy and would miss
things like Leo making extra money selling the product.

Baseball 3

While waiting for Dave to begin the drive, Leo cursed Dave for not starting out to
meet the connection. Dave was never on time and Leo hated this fault, after all he
thought, money was the issue and Leo believed not doing things half-ass when it
came to money. Leo hated Dave because he was careless but did not complain
because he made money through Dave’s thoughtlessness. His disgust for his
boss subsided when he saw his neighbor, Jacks, walking up the street swinging a
baseball bat.
Jacks kept his baseball bat next to his bed, if he got up to pee at night he took a
few swings at imaginary fast balls in his bedroom then jump in bed as if he was
crashing into home plate. Of course, his old bureau had damage as so did his
bedroom door due to the length of the bat and the small room. Sometimes, for
breakfast, it was common for him to walk up to the 7/11 to buy cigarettes for his
mother and father and cupcakes for himself while swinging the bat.
On that day it was sunny with a nice breeze, Leo laughed because he knew Jacks
was in his imaginary baseball world and unaware what was happening around
him. Leo liked Jacks because he was a person that gave all his attention to
something he wanted to perfect, hitting a baseball.

Baseball 4

Jacks stood still every couple of feet to swing the bat, thinking of the hits to all
fields. On his way up the street, he hit mailboxes, street signs, fences and a
parked car or two. Jacks saw Leo, nodded his head while Leo waved him over.
When they met, Leo offered Jacks a smoke. Jacks lit it and put it in his month as
he started swinging the bat. Jacks stood away from Leo and took vicious cuts
while Leo impersonated a sports announcer, “Hit down the third base line, two
runs batted in,” he yelled, clapping his hands. He was entertained because Jacks
had such a serious look of determination on his face.
Leo noticed Dave focusing on his cigarette pack and walking a bit unsteady
because of the effects of alcohol, speed and some downs to take the edge off. He
walked toward Leo and Jacks. Jacks was preparing to take a hard swing; Dave was
going to punch him in the side to surprise him. He disliked Jacks, because Jacks
was never a customer and all he talked about was baseball.
Leo thought there might be a chance for a special event to happen. Leo looked as
it unfolded before his eyes. He was hoping for it and there were energies of
delight in his brain as if he had just snorted cocaine.
Jacks steadied himself, looked at Leo and Leo nodded his head and yelled, “home
run swing now!” He saw Dave walking up to Jacks. As Jacks whipped his bat

Baseball 5

around, Leo saw Dave’s face give of what he thought was helplessness for a split
second as the bat hit him flushed.
At the shore, Leo enjoyed remembering the image of Dave’s face meeting the bat.
He opened his eyes and laughed wickedly over his memory. The crashing of the
waves, he thought, did not sound mightier than a baseball bat crushing the skull
of his competitor. He stood up and remembered the blood bursting from Dave’s
skull and Jacks crying and yelling, “Was an accident, an accident!”
The shore breeze was cool and refreshing and Leo yelled into it, “No accident, it
was meant to be,” while getting up and dancing around his porch as if he had just
won a boxing championship.
Being down the shore vacationing was a time to enjoy, get high, drink, eat and
invite old neighbors to talk about the good old days. Leo was expecting Jacks to
arrive any second. Leo had Jacks come down every year to do repair work on his
vacation home and Leo loved talking old times. Leo thought Jacks was a good
listener and a man interested in earning money. He worked hard for his wife and
daughter in nursing school. Leo felt giving Jacks his fix-it work on his rentals was in
a way thanking him for removing Dave. Through Jacks’ actions, he truly believed,

Baseball 6

he became a successful businessman, a dealer of drugs that enabled him to invest
in real estate. Some dealers were successful and he was one of them.
Leo also loved calling Jacks a “murderer” to his face. He loved the look pain in
Jack’s face remembering the blood and destruction he caused. He sat back,
inhaled, and then laid back in the soft chair taking pleasure in the memory of
Dave’s smashed face and chuckling over Jacks sorrow. He watched families
walking the shoreline and wondered if the teens would someday be customers for
his drug connections.
Outside, Jacks pulled his pickup truck up to Leo’s driveway, took a deep breath
and hesitated before opening the truck door. From his wallet, he took out the
picture of his wife and daughter. Both had blond hair and blue eyes. Both were
wearing yellow dresses. His wife nose was a bit crooked due to a softball incident
in High School. Jacks thought they were the most beautiful things ever to come
into his life. He looked upon them and truly loved them to the extent that he
would do anything for them, “My pride and joy,” he said kissing the photograph
of his wife and daughter sitting on the front step of his red brick row home in
Philly.

Baseball 7

He hated dealing with Burt but the money was good. His daughter was in her last
year of nursing school and any extra money to help her out was worth it. Jacks
usually dealt with Leo by thinking of baseball and his famous catch in sandlot
baseball game. He also thought about his wife and daughter and what extra
money could do for each. He opened his truck door, buckled his tool belt around
his waist, and then picked up his sledgehammer from the back. As he walked
toward the entrance, he took deep breaths of sea air. It smelled fresh, not like city
air.
“You here man?” Jacks yelled as he opened the door of Leo’s house. Leo heard
him, took a deep drag on his joint, laughed then cough.
“Leo, its Jacks, you here?” Jacks yelled again and waited on the stairs. He listened
and thought he heard muffled grunts. He pulled his hammer from his tool belt
and slowly walked up the stairs expecting maybe Leo was overdosing, or someone
came in to get even with him over a million misdeeds he had performed. Jacks
ready himself for anything. He saw the back of Leo’s head on the outside porch
chair and slowly walked toward him then stopped to face him. Leo smiled, and his
laugh made him flashed his crooked teeth.

Baseball 8

“Holy shit man, I wouldn’t have come up after hearing a grunt and all, but you
came up all looking serious to do the right thing. Would ya gave me mouth to
mouth, love?’ Leo said continuing to laugh.
Jacks sat down on a chair next to Leo and whispered,” You fat fucker, wish you
were dying, I’d spit in your face.”

“Sorry Jacky boy, it’s vacation and I’m indulging, have a joint and beer, whatever
ya want, take it easy, down the shore got to take it easy, “ Leo said throwing him
a Bud.
“Tell me what‘s gotta be done and I’ll get to it,” Leo said, his voice seriously trying
to hide anger.
“I want the wall separating the living room and kitchen knocked down, so when
I’m eating, I can still see the sea. Before you get with it, we will sit and remember
old times, like last year and the year before that and the one before that. Come
on man, we go way back, relax.” Leo said, feeling happy his old neighbor was
there with him.
For about five minutes both were quiet watching the sea. Jacks started to relax
even thought he could hardly tolerate his so-called friend. There was something

Baseball 9

memorizing about the ocean and he could not help but just sit there listening to
the waves crashing ashore and smelling the sea air under a full moon. The air
smelled clean and a slight breeze was refreshing compared to the hot humidity of
the city. He wished he were on the beach with his daughter and wife silently
walking and feeling the love they had for each other. “Yep, “he said, “Shore is
some beautiful place.”
“You know, you were quite the ball player back in the day, still don’t know how
you made that catch, how you do it man?” Leo said.
“Timing and balance”, Jacks said.
“Bull shit. It was as if you climbed some invisible wall then leaped and caught the
ball. Remember there was a hush over the crowd, and then everyone got up and
roared about how fantastic it was. “
“It was magic Jacks, you the magic,” Leo yelled getting up and doing a little dance.
The drugs were making him laugh nonstop until he ran out of breath and plopped
down again on his lounge chair. He then grabbed the pipe, lit it and took in the
sweet smelling herb.
It was the same every year, Jack thought. The one great catch he made playing
outfield that won the last game of the season and then the swing.

Baseball 10

“And the swing, you were the magical instrument that change my life,” Leo said
now rolling another joint on his coffee table.
Jacks hated when Leo had too much to drink along with all the drugs. Every
summer it was the same thing; Leo would always go to what Jacks termed an
“accident”. Leo thanked him for swinging the bat so well and then proceeded to
tell him one had to jump at the opportunity that Jacks had smashed open for him.
“The only thing I remember of that moment was the busted head and getting
scared, “Jacks said drinking more of his beer and looking intently at the ocean,
trying to stop his mind wandering back to the day.
“You killed a fucken’ drug dealer, a mean ass drug dealer that needed killing, you
should feel like a hero. I think of you as good magic and that’s what I thought as
we drove away to pick up drugs with his body in the car. Remember that?” Leo
said smiling and nodding his head while lighting the joint.
People were walking on the beach and periodically they peered over at the two
because of Leo’s loud voice and laughter. Leo would take this opportunity and
yell,” Howdy neighbors, beautiful night.” Then he mumbled about wondering if
their son or daughter would someday buy drugs from him. Jacks looked at him
shaking his head in disgust.

Baseball 11

“Everyone’s a mark Jacky; remember when I said that to make you feel better
when we were driving to Kensington to score? You were all half crying about what
you done. Remember that?”
Jacks remembered sitting in the back seat with Dave on the floor of the car. Leo
would now and then reach back, hit the body, and urge Jack to step on Dave’s
face. When Leo punched, Jacks thought about leaping from the car and running
home, but that’s when Leo grabbed his arm and said,” You were awesome
swinging that bat, was a home run my friend and I’ll never forget it.”
Jacks kept looking out the car window as they drove through the red brick
neighborhoods of Kensington. He looked out at the people on the sidewalks
visiting bars and listening to music. He felt like running to them confessing what
he had done and ask for forgiveness.
“Here, take a toke of this,” Leo said, making Jacks look at him. His so-called friend
was packing a pipe with pot and lighting it. “Pot smoking down the shore, can’t
beat it,” Leo said.
Leo inhaled and then leaned back in his chair thinking of all his young man
escapades. They made him dizzy, but the image of Jacks leaping up and catching a

Baseball 12

smash to left field made him focus. With bloodshot eyes, he looked at Jacks who
was looking out to sea.
“Hey, remember that catch? Hmm, how the fuck you do that? Really how you do
it, tell me. Look here and tell me,” Leo said, waiting for Jacks to face him.
Jacks rubbed his face as if waking from a bad dream. He was lost in the memory
about taking a life. It haunted him. He thought the only thing making him feel
good as a kid was putting on his baseball uniform to play in the game. He turned
to Leo and said,
“Just didn’t think about it,” Jacks said making Leo break out into uncontrollably
laughter

.

“Jesus Jacks. Smashing heads and catching baseballs took no thought. You looked
none too happy after you made that catch. Kept asking you why you were so
pissed off afterward. Why were you Jacks? “Leo asked.
“Cause the game was over, you fuck face, you don’t get it! “Jacks said, pointing his
finger in Leo’s face.
“Forget that finger pointing like you gonna do harm. You ain’t, hang here for a
second while I get my smokes from my room. Put some music on why don’t ya.”
Leo said while staggering toward to find his smokes.

Baseball 13

Jacks studied the albums on a big shelf against a wall just inside from the porch.
Leo had taken them from someone who owed him.
Jacks picked an old Bobby Darin song his wife enjoyed, “Somewhere beyond the
sea”. He turned the volume low, not wanting to disturbed the neighbors but still
hearing the ocean. He sat back down and thought of his wife and daughter. Every
moment he thought about them, he felt life was good and he hated being away
from them, especially with Leo dragging the past back. He started humming the
tune a bit and laughed about his terrible singing with Bobby Darin’s voice gracing
the moment with the smell and sound of the sea.
After about ten minutes, he thought he would check on Leo to tell him he was
leaving and he tend to the work the next day. He found Leo passed out on the
chair next to the wall he wanted removed. He was snoring and looking fat and
dirty but content. The sight made Jacks think how ugly his life felt after the
mishap with the bat. The event was always with him along with past memories of
Leo kicking Dave after he hit the ground and yelling, “Die, you mother fucker,
die”. Leo bent down to check if Dave was breathing and he always remembered
not feeling his breath but just the empty stillness of no sign of life.

Baseball 14

Jacks stood looking over Leo, remembering Dave’s body hitting the murky waters
of the Delaware River. There was not a big fuss in the neighborhood when he
stopped showing up on the corners. His drunken mother sometimes walked
around the neighborhood drunk, asking passer byes if anyone had seen him, “He
needs to give me money,” she usually said. No one really cared about a drug
dealer not showing up anymore. Except his demised creeped into Jacks thoughts
every day and night when he was younger and still into his adulthood. His wife
and daughter were what keep him sane and interrupted his grief.
As he looked upon Leo, he thought about the word “murderer” coming from his
lips. Word got around the street corners that he was involved in Dave’s
disappearance. The cops interviewed him once and it was Lieutenant Lewis, a
neighbor, heard about it and came to his house. He asked him if he had any
information. Jacks followed the neighborhood code, to deny, deny, deny when
cops asked questions. Lewis sent word to the police to leave it be. No one cared
about a drug dealer. In the neighborhood, everyone knew who was dealing, who
was stealing, who was running numbers, what cops you could pay off. It was a
common realization of those who met a bad end, especially drug dealers,
deserved what they got and no one would miss them. Cops and those neighbors
not on the up-and-up, lived side-by-side still neighbors, like Leo and Jacks.

Baseball 15

For a long time, Jacks thought he might be a murderer, especially with Leo telling
him he was the perfect assassin. Leo would tell him while slapping him on the
back, “You a baseball player and killer on the side”. Jacks figured if he thought like
a murderer, he could kill Leo. No one would care about a drug dealer.
There were other reasons to do the deed: No more reminders of what happened
long ago with Dave, how he made the catch and Leo’s laughter. There might be
peace of mind, he thought.
The music played and Jacks sang, “My love stands on golden sand”. He laughed at
his terrible raspy voice and walked back to the deck. He took a deep breath
thinking he would take the CD home with him for his wife. He then sat by Leo who
was snoring loudly sometimes sounding as if he was fighting for air. Jacks
reached into his toolbox and grabbed a handful of old nails, screws, nuts and
bolts. He picked a screw, tossed it on Leo’s face, and said, “I shouldn’t kill him”.
He then threw a rusty bolt at Leo’s head, and said, “I should kill him”. Jacks did
this for some time and was amazed Leo hardly moved and continued snoring
while covered with hardware. Jacks remembered Leo kicking Dave’s bloody head
and laughing, that laugh he hated. The same laugh he had when the body hit the
waters of the Delaware River.

Baseball 16

Jacks wiped the sweat dripping down from his forehead, he felt cold and a slight
breeze made him colder. He thought of his wife and daughter, and then looked at
his arm outstretched after tossing another bolt at Leo’s head. How he caught that
drive in the summer of ’73, he did not really know. All he knew was he had no
thoughts and witnessed himself flying through the air as if becoming weightless to
make the catch. When he descended, he watched the crowd standing, some
clapping and raising their arms. He did not hear them for seconds but then he
heard the fans call his name. He stood there thinking and hoping the game would
not end because it was a moment of peace and quiet within him. That was the
magic, he thought with his eyes closed. The only normal thing that Leo did was
when he ran up to him to congratulate him, telling him it was a great catch. Jacks’
mood changed when Leo said, “You’re a true assassin. You took the heart right
out of that team.” Leo’s voice shook his thoughts and spirt away from his perfect
moment.
At the shore, the thought of the perfect moment dissolved in his mind when a
gust of ocean air reached him and he started to stand with a chill running through
him. He watched Leo sleeping and sweating as the many rusted bolts rolled off his

Baseball 17

head. The music stopped, leaving Leo’s snoring mix with the sound of the ocean.
Slowly Jacks lifted the sledgehammer over his head. Jacks was a strong lean man;
he held his sledgehammer like a baseball bat. His veins outlined his taut muscles.
Leo looked like a devastated machine with the rusty bolts, washers and nails on
top of him. Then he took a powerful swing. Anyone walking the shore could have
heard the destruction. The dust from the wall started to cover Leo. He was still
drowsy from his constant drug and alcohol cocktail; his eyes fell upon the white
dusted Jacks who looked like doom coming upon him. “What...wh...what, “he
tried to say. Jacks stared down at him and said, “Yellow…Yellow”, turning his body
ready to strike again.
“Paint the room yellow…my wife’s color,” he said, making Leo and house shake.

The End

Baseball 18


