It was a hot and cold day. It was a very strange day, as if the very air was holding its
breath. Abraham sat on the porch thinking about nothing. He was thinking about nothing
because there wasn’t much to think about anymore. His gaze rested blandly on the old white
pickup parked in the gravel drive. It was mid-afternoon and the flies circled his head like a
wreath. Or a halo. Suzanne called him from inside.
“Abe! Get in here and fix me a drink. I’m dyin’ over here. Shit.”
Abraham rose from his plastic lawn chair and, because he was a kind person, decided he
would oblige.
Suzanne was lazy. She was also fat, which led her to frequently overheat. Abraham could
never understand how a person could just squander the miracle of creation like she did-- letting
it pass by without so much as a wave—and this had always been a jumping off point for their
arguments. But that was when Abraham first moved in with Suzanne. At the time, he had felt it
was his moral responsibility to keep the remainder of their family together after their last
parent passed. And, as a retired military chaplain, deep down he couldn’t help but anticipate
the move as an opportunity to edify Suzanne into an upstanding Christian.
But they didn’t argue anymore. Abraham had long ago exhausted himself with trying to
shape his sister up. It wasn’t long before his motivational sermons were extinguished to a quiet
resignation. It was easier that way.


He laid down the glass on the floor by Suzanne’s fat head, which rested on the arm of
the couch. Her face--reddish, plump, and permanently screwed in a distasteful sneer--didn’t so
much as flinch at the favor.
“And what in the helll ‘ve you been doin’ all day?” She demanded of Abraham, still not
turning her head from where it lolled on the couch, eyes fixed to the television screen. “I know
you sure as hell hain’t been goin’ in to claim them food stamps. These here chips is the only
thing I’ve had all day! It’s a damn wonder I hain’t starved to death bah now. And this here TV
keeps cuttin’ out. Why haven’t you fixed this damn piece of shit yet? Ain’t I asked you near on a
dang week ago…”
Abraham was standing behind the couch. He knew Suzanne, and he knew that she could
continue on like this for a good while. So the combination of factors allowed him to about-face
and pad across the floor out the screen door, quietly guiding it to its rest on its hinges. Back on
the porch, hands in overall pockets, he found himself staring at the strangest sight he’d ever
seen. The sky, previously filled with blue atmosphere and friendly puffs of cumulus, had spun
itself into a whirling green vortex. A low growl could be heard around the desert valley, vibrating
the dry, sandy earth as the heavens expressed their displeasure. He let out a low whistle. It was
a very strange day, indeed.
Suddenly, the sound of fifty trains ripped through the air. The wind swiftly picked up
pace, snatching Abraham’s straw hat clean off his head, and a furious funnel of twisting cloud
came sprinting over the dusty desert mountain occupying the horizon in front of the house-straight towards the front porch.

2

“Lord Jesus Christ it’s a tornado!”
Suzanne never moved much, if at all, but evidently imminent doom was enough to stir
even her. She sprang from where she lounged, knocking over her glass, and charged out the
back door. Abraham was now close behind her, but not close enough. “Suzanne, wait up with
the shelter!” The swinging screen door smacked back into its frame like a mouse trap before his
nose. As he fumbled to prop the door back open, he caught a glimpse of Suzanne yanking the
heavy doors of the tornado shelter taut behind her as she dove to safety. “Wait for me!” Before
his disbelief could turn to rage, his insides were slammed into his spine and the wind sucked
from his chest. He had a sensation of weightlessness for a moment, as if suspended in
purgatory, and then there was nothing.
*
Abraham had had a very strange dream. The kind that teases and tugs at you for the next few
days. The kind that changes things. There was blood—a lot of it. He was in golden robes, so
elaborate they could only have belonged to an angel. Or were those his old chaplain robes?
His brow furrowed as he groped for the details. He was on top of a mountain, a knife in
his hand. There had been words like thunder, human only in language, superhuman in
conviction. Its speech was everywhere, enveloping his mind, resonating in his very bones. It
could have been nothing other than the voice of God Himself, and he lifted his face skyward to
accept its commandment. Abraham. Abraham, Bringer of Light. Abraham, the Shepherd.
Abraham.

3

And then he knew what to do, and with God’s permission, he had done it. There were
two screams. Or was it one? Had he been screaming, too?
Now he was alone, ready to ascend to meet his King and assume his place alongside
Him. He felt blissful and calm and good as he let the golden light soak into him.
But through it all, there was a sharp pain erupting deep inside him, growing more
palpable by the moment. Knowing it was God’s love piercing his very soul, he tried to lose
himself to the numbness and ecstasy washing over him. The source of the light drew nearer,
blinding him. His eyes squeezed shut against the brilliance as he extended his fingers, stretching
towards it. If he could hold on just a little longer, he would be able to reach—

Something snapped. Abraham was pulled back to his waking senses, his surroundings.
There was a pulsing in his jaw, his shoulder, deep in his abdomen. His skin felt raw. The air
smelled of sawdust. And clarity. He opened his eyes, and there was Suzanne: still fat, clammy,
blanched, terribly shaken up, but otherwise unscathed. A spot of wet had seeped through the
crotch of her grey sweatpants, but she didn’t appear to have noticed as she wobbled there
before him. She held a snapped plank of wood, the pieces in each hand.
“This plank…it broke when I stepped on it.” She stuttered, wide-eyed. She swept her
gaze across the ruins. “Everything’s broke.”
Abraham sat up. He realized the pulsing was actually an excruciating pain. He realized a
lot of things. His shoulder was already swelling. His palms were bloody.

4

There was nothing much left of anything. The back wall had completely caved in. The
roof had blown off. Cans and shards of glass were scattered everywhere. Both screen doors
were missing. The refrigerator remained, as did the couch. That was about it. The sky above,
now clearly visible from indoors with the gaping new sun roof, was completely clear. It was blue
and, Abraham thought, full of promise.
“Suzanne, we’re gittin’ outta here.” Abraham shakily rose to his feet. Everything ached,
but he knew what he needed to do, and he wasn’t about to let anything impede him, pain
included. His head was clear. “Grab anything you can find. Food, water, blankets, matches. We
gotta git up the mountain. There’s other folk that live up there. They’ll help us. There’s nothin’
for us here. No use. We’re gittin’ outta here.”
Abraham hadn’t spoken firmly to Suzanne in at least ten years, hadn’t spoken much at
all, and Suzanne was taken aback. She remained where she stood for a beat, then turned,
speechless for perhaps the first time in her life, and began assembling their scarce remaining
necessities in a pile at the center of the dilapidated wooden skeleton of their former
inhabitance.
Abraham went out to the backyard. There was nothing there. And yet he felt the
richness of the desert landscape around him. He felt full of light, his soul refreshed despite the
haggardness of his body. He saw that the doors to the tornado shelter lay open like the pages of
a blank book. He thought it was high time to fill those pages. With a great deal of difficulty, he
descended the stairs and, using the light from outside, grabbed a duffel bag, a hunting knife, a
few cans of food, toilet paper, and an old fifth of whisky Suzanne had deemed necessary to

5

stash in the shelter assuming the worst happened and she was stuck liquor-less until the Second
Coming. Liquor-less she shall not be, thought Abraham, as he shoved it into the bag and made
for the stairs.
Back in the house, Abraham grabbed the few belongings Suzanne had conjured, and
made for the pickup, which had skidded around backwards during the storm. He paused to wait
for Suzanne. She fidgeted in place, looking about, scratching her backside. “Abe, I’m stayin,’” she
finally mustered. “I got everything I need down in that shelter, and I’ll be jist fine out here ‘til
you go git help.”
Abraham felt something bubble inside him. It felt like rage—something he hadn’t felt in
a long while. He recognized the old fire from his younger days, and savored how powerful it
made him feel. “Suzanne, we are not discussin’ this. I am not comin’ back here ever again. I’ve
given up the last fifteen years of my life to be with you, and I ain’t lettin’ it all be for nothin’
‘cause you’re stubborn and lazy!” He heard his voice rise steadily, until he was shouting the
words at her. “Now, you’ll come with me and git in this here truck now because there won’t be
no one comin’ to save you this time. This time, we’re doin’ it my way!” With that, he turned
from her, struggling to maintain an air of authority as he limped towards the truck. As he fought
to hoist himself into the driver’s seat, he heard the passenger door creak open as Suzanne
complied with his demands. He couldn’t help but smile smugly to himself.
Abraham drew the keys from the glove box and jammed them into the ignition. The car
shuttered to life. He pulled the truck onto the road leading to the mountain, an unfurling stretch

6

of brown gravel distinguished from the rest of the desert only by its lack of the otherwise scant
desert flora. It would be about half an hour until they reached the top of the mountain.
As they drove under the vast blue span of heaven, the two people said nothing. And yet
Abraham’s mind would not keep quiet. He struggled to shake the pain off long enough to
remember the events of the day. The eerie stillness, the drink for Suzanne. Something about the
TV. The sound, yes, he would never forget that sound. Like Hell itself ripping open its Vesuvian
gates to engulf the world. And then he had run indoors, and there was fat Suzanne, sprinting
like Satan was at her heels. He remembered calling to her in desperation, and her slamming
shut those tornado doors anyway. His knuckles whitened as he tightened his grip on the
steering wheel. He could have died! He felt his blood would boil out of him, and his foot
instinctively pressed harder into the pedal.
Suzanne made a little noise as the car revved forward, but Abraham ignored her. His
eyes flashed with rage as they accelerated forward.
Then, of course, there was the vision. The message from God! God! The Chosen One!
Everything made so much more sense to him now. Armed with this God-given confidence,
Abraham felt invincible. He would not fail. It was so plain to him now that he felt like laughing.
All his life he had suffered. There was so much sadness. All his life he had been diligent, honest,
patient, and good, giving up his whole life for the Cause, but always greeted by Suzanne’s
obstinacy to faith and righteousness. Always, greeted with unhappiness. But, he mused, there
can be no redemption without suffering. God had made him His disciple. He would finally
realize the glory he deserved after years in service of the Lord. He was to bring happiness to

7

himself and humanity at large. The Bringer of Light. And he would do that by removing all the
sources of darkness in the world. And he would begin with Suzanne.
In this way, with the truck devouring the distance and spiritual revelation gracing his
psyche like the kiss of an angel, Abraham’s anger was gradually overcome by anticipation for the
road that lay ahead. He felt giddy.

The truck wheezed its last breaths and spluttered to a stop. Abraham unhooked his
seatbelt, grabbed the duffel, and squeaked open his door. Suzanne followed. She had not
uttered a sound the whole trip. No doubt she had been upset by the prospect of leaving the lair
in which she had dwelt in for the majority of her miserable years on this earth.
The two met in front of the truck, facing each other, still not speaking. Perhaps, Abe
mused, she was afraid to speak out after he had decidedly put her in her place just minutes ago.
Perhaps he had finally made clear to her she should have listened to him her whole life.
But how scared Suzanne looked now, Abraham observed. Like a lamb. She was looking to
him to guide her to safety, out of this mess, open now to receive the comforting words of the
Lord, to provide some explanation to the answerless questions.
Abraham tore his gaze away. The truck had taken them nearly to the summit. Just a few
minutes’ walk would bring them to the top. He placed a foot in front of the other. And then the
other. Slower now; he felt heavier than when he started this journey. The reality of the task
ahead loomed like a wall of water, making each step labored, as if he was walking against a

8

current. He stopped to look back. From where he stood, the orange sands looked like fire
engulfing the entire desert. It might as well have been.
Suzanne was his sister. Growing up, they had been a team. For years, they had fought
the same battle for a normal life, a sane life, against the staunch foe of neglectful, divorced,
substance abusing parents. But despite Abraham’s best efforts, this opponent had gotten the
best of Suzanne in the end.
Suzanne followed behind her brother, listless, helpless, and unknowing. Abraham was
the shepherd. He was to be the savior of humans. He was to end all suffering. God had
determined this. This was a test to see if Abraham truly was capable of doing the Lord’s service.
He tried to summon the visions of his dream back to mind, but found the details eluding his
invitation. This panicked him. He scratched his arm. Then he scratched the other. Suddenly, his
whole body was rippling with itches. He scratched his head, his ears, the back of his neck,
staggering forward, drowning in the sensations. His insides were churning. The wounds inflicted
by the tornado’s wrath began to rear their spiny heads. His abdomen throbbed. He was
sweating. The day was too hot.
Then, in a moment of clarity, Suzanne snapped out of her daze, as if God Himself was
addressing him through the dark chaos clouding Abraham’s mind. “Goddam, it’s hot as Hell out
here. I could use me a drink. Did you remember that whisky?”
This final sign gave Abraham the last bit of strength he needed. He stopped, dropped the
duffel. ”I sure did.” In a swift sequence of events enacted by what could only have been fate
unfolding—or a rash consequence of shock--Abraham unzipped the duffel, drew out his hunting
9

knife, grabbed his sister, yanked her to the ground, peered into her soul. His head was filled with
nothing as Suzanne’s round, flushed face turned up to him, eyes bulging, words snatched from
her. She looked like a grossly overweight child. Abraham’s vision slurred to a blinding white. He
raised the knife high above him, and the Lord’s name was ripped from his lips in a final plea for
the truth. As he screamed, she screamed, and he allowed his arm to fall.

10


