You think about the body pillow and old Halloween wig that sleeps under your covers
tonight, and you know that ruse will keep your parents from noticing you aren’t really there. It’s
so cliché, but it works. You climb out of your parents’ house towards the woods as the night
drifts closer to the earth, cloaking any semblance of clarity. You zip up your crimson hoodie with
full awareness of the irony of walking into the woods against your parents’ permission at night
while wearing red, but you aren’t her.
Still, you shrug off the crisp November air and keep walking. There are no big, bad
wolves in these woods, anyway. You walk along the paths you know by heart, only the darkened
thoroughfares cast shaky shadows that slowly pull wisps of doubt inside you. The creaking and
cracking of branches against branches with the final chirpings of the Indian summer crickets
send the shivers up and down, not your spine, but deeper than that. Your mind sees the crickets
rubbing their scraper and file wings against each other in haunting violin bows scrapping against
strings.
The moon comes and goes through the trees and clouds, distorting the path as you go
further and further. You must be getting close, you hope. You trip over a root that a rickety
shadow concealed in its fight with the moonlight, your hood falling from your head, but you
don’t completely lose your footing. You are grateful and take the breath almost lost in the almost
fall.
The smell of bonfire comes with the intake of air, and your waning confidence
boomerangs back with force. As if your parents know these woods at all like you do. You follow
the smoke to its owner, a small but sure, thigh-high flame, enough for warmth but not enough for
damage or unwanted attention. A short fallen log sits alone by the fire. You question if he tired

of waiting for you, but an arm slithers around your waist from behind you as his voice slides in
your ear: I wondered when you would get here.
You feel off-kilter, your breath feeling like a wild creature dying to get out of and yet
stay in its cage at the same time. You crave the feeling and lean your head to the left as he
scrapes his scruff against your neck, unyielding in his squeeze around your waist.
You expect him to ask you about how hard it was to get away from your parents—you
want him to share in your triumph over them and their rules—but he doesn’t ask. He only holds
on. So you hold on to his arms around you. The fire cracks and pops, and the smoke follows the
wind change towards you.
Smoke follows beauty, you know, he whispers in your ear before nipping at your neck.
An owl hoots long, low tones you’ve never heard before, and your skin changes from goose
bumps to feeling as though it is scorching through your t-shirt and hoodie. You grab at the
zipper, longing for the cool autumn air on your skin, but he’s holding you too close. You gasp
and push against his arms until he frees you. You turn and look at him, but his normally ice-blue
eyes only reflect the fire burning behind you. The smoke drifts between you and him. You
cannot breathe without tasting smoke, so you run. You run back through the woods without
floundering once, the moon and your memory making you sure-footed as you race away from the
heat of the November woods and him calling your name.


