The dirt road winds unevenly from where Les Bumberton parked his car off the interstate.
He steps carefully on the clay surface, avoiding the squishy parts formed by a soaking rain the
previous night. He can’t risk getting his black winged tips caked in mud or his suit pants
splattered with the stuff. His colleagues would razz him mercilessly. At 35 he is the youngest
chief deputy the squad has ever had and his older charges rarely miss an opportunity to point out
his youthful shortcomings. “Your menu is on your tie”…"Your dinner date said to pick her up at
eight (don’t keep your mom waiting)”…"Tweeting is what birds do.” He chaffs at the ribbing,
but never lets on. He is counting on his first assignment to prove he is more than a kid in a blue
suit, matching tie, and monogrammed boxer shorts.
The road eventually passes in front of a small path on the right, marked by a sign with a
drawing of a child’s toy train and the words “Choo-Choo” painted under it in block letters. His
superiors told him his assignment was in the desert. But he arrived late last night and the
darkness masked the giant mountains and scraggily underbrush he now sees as he moves down
the path.

He comes to a train station resembling an old fashioned Spanish mission and immediately
recognizes it as his objective. It consists of two one story buildings connected by a hallway. The
walls are made of stucco, the pale brown color matching the landscape surrounding it. Les
pauses at the solid oak door and uses his reflection in the glass window to make sure his best side
precedes him into the building.
Snippets of laughter and chatter greet him as he enters the station. A large painting covers
one of the walls from floor to ceiling. It appears to be of a woman with a lot of men standing
around her. He leans back to get a better view of it when he spots something flying at him from
the corner of his eye. He jumps out of the way of a soccer ball as it hits the door and bounces
onto the floor and into the arms of a young boy.
“Sorry, Mister.” The boy turns and drops the ball on the ground kicking it into the main
room where a group of other youngsters pounce on it. They poke and shove each other as they
try to kick it at a net painted on the wall in the main waiting area. People line the sides of the
station, some standing and watching the game, others seated in muted conversations with one
another.
“Hey, stop, you shouldn’t be—" Before Les can finish a woman charges at him her hand
extended, her words sounding like a train whistle growing louder with each approaching step.
“Hellloooo..." Les raises his hand expecting impact only to feel the soft hand of a woman
in his. “Welcome...welcome…I’m Morna Millner. Sorry about the ball. Must have felt like you
were entering hell there for a moment.” She raises her eyebrows and leans into him. “All hope
abandon, ye who enter here.” Les opens his mouth, but she slaps his arm before he can speak.
“That’s Dante…from his Inferno. Just kidding. I can assure you, this is not hell.”

“What is this painting? It sure looks like hell.”
“That’s Mother Earth.” Morna pats her chest with her hand pointing to the painting with
the other. “It is breathtaking, don’t you think? Done by an environmentalist who ran out of
canvass. So I gave him the wall.”
“What’s it about? Who are these men...and that car?”
“The men in suits are pimping her…to the grubby little men in the SUV…coming home
from a hard day’s work, no doubt.”
“That’s crass.”
“But true.” Morna reaches up and musses his bushy brown hair causing a wad to stick up
straight like the crest of an enraged cockatoo. Les pats it down with the palms of both hands.
“My name’s Les Bumberton and I’m on official business” He gathers his composure.
“You must be the station agent.” He steps aside as a soccer ball flies by him.
“The station change agent, underline change.” She stands tall with her hands on her hips
as though posing for someone painting her. .
“I don’t understand. This is supposed to be—"
“A train station, I know. But it’s so much more. Now we give the east/west riders a
choice.”
“But they have a choice. They can go either east or west.” Morna’s eyes widen.
“What kind of a choice is that, Mr. Bumberton.”
“Please, call me, Les, Ms. Millner.”
“Okay, Les. And please call me Morna.”

“And that should be the only choice they have, Morna. East or West.” He folds his arms
and leans against the wall. “Morna. That’s an interesting name.” There’s something about Morna
that causes him to drop his guard. She is tall and thin with long blond hair that falls carelessly on
her shoulders. She isn’t wearing any makeup and a small white apron around her waist seems to
be the only noticeable fashion accessory. Yet, there is an upbeat, enthusiastic glow about her that
makes Les want to know more.
“My parents said when I was born my life was like the morning of a whole new day for
them. So they named me Morna—short for morning.”
One of the ladies standing against the far wall with a small group suddenly raises her
hand.
“Morna, Morna…can I see you over here for a moment?”
“Excuse me,” she says her blond curls brushing her shoulders as she hurries toward the
woman. Les takes his cell phone from his pocket and speed dials a number. He holds his hand
over his face so he can’t be heard.
“I found her…yes...young…about 30ish. This is the place. Get the squad over here as fast
as you can.” His hand is suddenly tugged from his mouth as he hangs up the phone and places it
in his pocket.
“Quick, we’re gonna’ line dance.” She removes the apron and tosses it on a side chair.
She pulls the tails of her white blouse from her gray slacks and takes off her shoes. She yanks
Les onto the dance floor with her.
“No, wait, I can’t we’re supposed to--"

“Dance. How right you are, and we shall.” Before he knows it, Les is in the middle of a
line next to Morna. " 'Let us read, let us dance,' says Voltaire, the little devil.”
“But I don’t know how to, I--" Before he can react, the woman in front turns her back to
the group.
“Now watch me, and I’ll show you the basic steps.”
The music plays. His steps are rigid, but soon the warm rhythms loosen his arms and
legs, their movements flowing as though in response to the effects of sweet wine. His head bobs
in time with the beat, his arms swing carefree around him. He giggles as he grapevines to his
right, then his left, clapping his hands and turning in time with the others. He unbuttons his suit
jacket, grabs Morna’s hand and spins her around him. He is breathless when the music stops,
applauding and nodding at everyone else.
“I did it, I did it, I—" He catches himself and buttons his jacket as if responding to a
recently-forgotten memory. Morna has left the dance floor and he quick steps behind her.
“Wait…Morna...we have to talk. Where are the benches…in the main room here? There has to
be benches for people waiting for the train.”
“We took them out.”
“People will have no place to wait.”
“If the benches were there, they’d have no place to dance.” She retrieves her apron from
the chair and twirls it around her head before tying it around her waist. “And that …Les…would
be far worse.”
Morna pulls Les by his arm down a corridor connecting the two buildings. She stops in
front of a doorway. Les yanks his arm from her grip.

“Stop pulling me.” He smooths out the sleeves of his suit jacket. “The gift shop. I want to
see the gift shop.”
“Here it is.” Morna jerks her head in the direction of the door. She purses her lips and half
closes her eyes. “Only now we call it a ‘Share shop.’ "
“What…?”
“C’mon, Les.” She gives him a hard shove driving him into the wall. “You know what
people do with stuff they buy at gift shops. They stick them in a drawer and never look at them
again. People share thoughts here…ideas…hope…” Morna arches her back and extends her arms
in the air. “‘Hope is the thing with feathers—…That perches in the soul.’ Emily Dickinson…did
she nail it or what?”
“But you make money from a gift shop, how are you—" In one motion Morna turns Les
around and pushes him through the doorway. He stumbles forward as she slams the door behind
him. People are seated around a long table. Two farmers in overalls sit hunched in their chairs,
their sandy hair falling carelessly on ruddy faces, their hands rough from hard work outdoors.
Another man in a business suit turns off his cell phone and places it in front of him. An elderly
woman with gray hair tied in a bun and a loose fitting blue sweater knits quietly at the end of the
table.
“I had this dream the other night.” A mean seated in the center leans back on his chair. He
is middle aged, his dark hair seasoned with strands of gray, his tan corduroy jacket unzipped and
hanging loosely down the sides of his chair. “I was stuck in quicksand in the middle of nowhere,
Couldn’t get out. This guy comes out of nowhere, pushing a cartload of stuff he’s selling.” A

couple, who had been looking out the large picture window at the platform and tracks adjacent to
the room, turns and walks toward the man. Les folds his arms and leans in the corner.
“The quicksand is up to my arm pits now. I yell, ‘Hey, mister, I’m drownin’ here, help
me.’ He looks at me and say’s ‘Sure, I got just the thing’. He reaches under his cart and he pulls
out what looks like one of those long harpoon guns that you use to shoot whales.” The business
man grunts; the couple looks at each other and shrugs. Les stares intently at the man. “He tells
me I could take this gun, fire it at a branch on a tree close by. The hook at the end will fasten
itself around it and I can climb out. I say, great and reach for it. He’s about to hand it to me when
he pulls it back. ‘That will be 29.99,’ he says. I tell him my wallet is in my pocket buried under
all this sand. I'll pay him as soon as I get out.

“But he refuses. ‘Nope. Gotta’ have the money in advance. That’s my policy.’ And he
turns and starts to walk away. The quicksand is around my neck now and I know I’m doomed. I
call him an evil bastard. He turns and gives me this crooked smile. ‘As soon as word gets out you
died from quicksand in these woods, everyone who comes here is gonna’ wanna’ buy my
product. I’ll have to open a new factory, hire a hundred new workers to keep up with demand.
They’ll take the money I pay them and buy food at grocery stores, shoes and clothes for their
kids at the mall, gas to run their cars, and those people who run those businesses will have to hire
more people to keep up. Now that’s a lot of good if you ask me.’ My head went under and next
thing I knew, I was awake coughing in my pillow.” The young hay seed strokes his chin and is
the first to speak.
“So, what your dream is saying, good can come from evil.”

“How’s that possible?” The woman standing next to her husband places her hands on the
back of a chair and leans forward. “Evil is evil. Period.”
The businessman picks up his cellphone and turns it on. “Yeah, but you have to admit.
The guy made a good case. I mean, one accidental death can start a whole new market, create
new jobs, bring prosperity to lots of people.” Les stands next to the man who told his dream.
“Human beings are both…good and evil and nothin’ can change that,” Les says. The
woman at the end of the table stops knitting. She raises her eyebrows as she looks at Les.
“Why not?”
A lively discussion begins about the more fundamental question of how human beings
should behave in the course of surviving and making a living. But Les finds there is no frame of
reference in his head for such a discussion. Besides, what if his men catch him listening to such
drivel? He hurries out of the room and finds Morna in the hallway.
“Morna, you got to stop what’s going on in ---" But she grabs his hand and pulls him into
the main room where she pushes him on to a bench in the main area. She directs his attention to
people in small groups talking animatedly about issues… conservatives, liberals, Christians and
socialists, those against immigration, those for a more accommodating policy. Their heads turn in
all directions as they listen, nodding and encouraging one another to speak up. The boys run
among them kicking their soccer ball at the net painted on the side wall. Les shakes his head.
“I don't get what’s going on here.”
“They’re exploring new ways to find solutions to problems, even when they don't agree.
She tussles his hair. “You know what they say…'Persuade your neighbors to compromise
whenever you can.’ ” Les pushes her hand away.

“And who said that, Millner comma Morna?”
“Nope.” She tweaks his noise. “Lincoln comma Abraham.”
Les wants to tell Morna that’s not how it works. To many, compromise is weakness.
They’d rather break heads to make their point. But at that instant Morna stands like the queen of
some fairy tale land…listening to the groups work out their differences…cheering on the boys
relentlessly playing their game…observing people outside chatting with each other on the
platform, carefree, content to be what they are in this microcosm of a world she has created. Her
face betrays a vulnerability that makes Les want to hold her and assure her everything will be
okay. But there is also a resoluteness that defies weakness and rejects the need to rely on anyone
but herself.
Morna is about to say something to Les when she is interrupted by the sound of feet
pounding rhythmically through the front door. In a few seconds a group of men appear in the
main room. They are all dressed in suits like Les, the same color with matching ties and black
winged tip shoes. One of them sees Les and walks down the hall toward them speaking loudly as
he approaches.
“What the hell’s going on here? Looks like a terrorist cell planning something big.”
“The seniors are doing something for Incontinence Day next week, but that’s all we’ve
got on the calendar so far.” The man eyes Morna up and down. “Is this her?”
“Yeah,” Les says nodding nervously. “I’ll take care of her.” He is practically nose-to-nose
with Les. He is shorter and much older, his bald head shiny from perspiration, his moustache a
mixture of gray and silver whiskers. He speaks slowly in raspy, make-my-day tones.

“Let’s get this pansy camp closed and out of here fast. We got to get back to headquarters
by tomorrow.”
“Yes, sir…I mean…Holloway.” Holloway purses his lips in a weak smile, then turns to
join the rest of the squad.
“Is that your boss?”
“No. That’s Holloway. I…I’m the boss.”
“Really? Sure looks like Captain Bullet-Brain is in charge.” He pulls her to the side as
some of the men walk past and enter the Share shop.
“Look, Morna, we’re here to put the station back to the way it was.”
Les tightens his grip on her arm. “Soon, all these people will be put on the westbound
train and sent home. There’s nothing you can do.” He expects her to try to wrench her arm free,
shout her resistance to what is taking place. Instead, she playfully pinches his cheek with her
thumb and forefinger.
“You know, we’ve been thinking about starting a language club to find letters and sounds
that do a better job of expressing what people think and how they feel.”
“You’re no longer the station agent. You’ll be taking the next train back with me.”
“Station change agent. Imagine…all those emotions and ideas and only 26 letters to
express them.”
Morna spends the next half hour saying goodbye to the people waiting on the platform
for the westbound train. She mingles freely among them talking about how they first met and
laughing about their initial reluctance to stay. They thank her for what she has done and the
alternative she provided to the east/west trains.

“It’s something we won't forget,” a young woman says as she looks through her briefcase
in preparation for her return to a previous life. A recent college graduate tells her how much she
will miss the Share shopm and all she learned in there.
“Sorry, Morna. You know we’d stay if we could,” she says. One of the boys gives her his
soccer ball.
“Here, you can have it. Score one more goal for me.”
“I will.” She takes the ball and bounces it in front of her a couple of times before tucking
it under her arm.
At that moment Morna hears a low rumble, causing a faint shake in the ground. A breeze
lightly brushes the right side of her face. She looks down the tracks in the direction of the breeze
and sees a cloud of smoke pouring from a stack, tapered at first then billowing into the sky like a
black genie summoned from a giant lamp. An old steam locomotive comes into view, its boiler
black as coal, its cab and wheels a fire engine red. A brass bell on top of the engine rings in
response to someone pulling on its cord. It is followed by a tender car filled with coal and two
long wooden cars, old and rickety, their faded red paint peeling and revealing bare spots of
wood.
The train stops at the station with a hiss and high pitched squeal of the brakes. A rather
large woman in her 40’s emerges from the cab and stands on the top step of the ladder. She wears
tight-fitting jeans, a blue denim blouse, the shoulders and sleeves tan, and an open denim vest.
Her dark hair is short and spiked, her eyes pools of watery excitement. She raises her arms in the
air.

“Heck, I sure didn’t expect a welcoming party. My name’s Cass Noonan, but don’t expect
a speech or a blessing; I’m not a politician or the pope.” Morna gasps at the sight of the woman.
“Professor Noonan.” The woman smiles broadly when she sees her. She hurries down
the steps and embraces Morna.
“Morna. Morna Millner, my prize pupil.”
Morna holds her at arm’s length. “I have missed you.” She leans into her. ‘And we loved
with a love that was more than love…’ "
“Poe…I’m a sucker for that crazy bastard.”
Morna and Cass Noonan disappear into the station. Holloway darts to the cab, Les not far
behind. They find a young person dressed in overalls and a striped engineer’s cap. A red bandana
soaked in sweat is tied around his neck.
“Where’s the west bound train?” Holloway demands. “It should have been here by now.”
The young man removes his cap and a shock of black curls falls from it. He wipes his forehead
with his sleeve.
“Don’t know. I know it was ahead of us for a time. I thought it came and went by now.”
Holloway shakes his head. He turns and sees a group of about 20 people filing out of the cars.
They are a varied bunch, men and women, young and old, the kind who work at supermarkets,
banks and call centers. One of the men, an older man in a plaid shirt and dungarees, approaches
the two men.
“I heard you ask about the westbound train. I saw a train take a cutoff just as we rounded
a bend about 30 miles up the track.”
“That’s impossible,” Holloway says. “Why would the engineer do that?” The man shrugs.

“Maybe it’s what the passengers wanted.”
Les and Holloway mingle with the members of the group to find out more about them. A
young couple explains how they are Professor Noonan’s students, majoring in Changeology. The
class is on a field trip to a location about 20 miles west of the station.
“What the hell is Changeology?” Holloway squints searching his brain for the term.
“It’s the main offering at the University we all attend,” says an older man with a gray
beard and wire rimmed glasses.
“And what University is that?” The man looks at Les then at some of his fellow
classmates. They all shrug.
“It’s…the University...that’s all we know. It seems every time they decide on a name,
they change it. Kinda’ goes with the turf.”
Morna and Cass emerge from the station about 20 minutes later. Cass is putting on her
vest while Morna hurriedly tucks her blouse into her slacks. Cass approaches Les.
“Uh, you’re Mr., Bumberton, the one in charge.” Holloway starts to say something but
thinks better of it.
“Yes, but call me Les.”
“Call me Cass, Les. In between moans and other exhortations to the Almighty…” Cass
looks at Morna. They both snicker at each other like a couple of kids with a secret.”…Morna
here tells me you’re putting the station back to the way it was.”
“That’s correct,” Les says looking as serious as his photo ID. “And if you and your group
are thinking of protesting, you—“

“Protesting...Protesting?” Cass throws up her arms. Morna turns to the group. “Did you
hear that? Les thinks you’re here to protest the station.” The group is quiet for a moment, then
breaks out into laughter, clapping their hands and stamping their feet, the resulting clamor
sounding like rolling thunder echoing off the distant mountains.
“You mean, like trying to piss people off in three words or less, making it into a sign and
tacking it on a stick?” A young man in tan trousers and a white sweater places one fist on top of
the other and jerks them high in the air as he mockingly marches in front of the station. “Eat Shit
Die…Eat Shit Die…” The other students get behind him chanting along with him until they
break their stride falling into fits of laughter. An older woman wearing a purple tie-dye shirt runs
up to a man leaning against the train car.
“Marvin…come on…show them how we used to do it in the 60’s.” Marvin stands up
straight, a tall, serious figure with scraggily gray hair and a full beard. He thrusts his fist in the
air and marches toward the group. “Power to the people…Power to the people.” But he’s soon
too winded to continue, trying to catch his breath as he places the palms of his hands on his
knees. The woman in the tie-dye shirt looks at Les.
“He’s the real thing.” She points to his trousers. “He’s even got the bell bottoms to prove
it.”
Cass takes Les by the arm and along with Morna leads him away from the group, whose
members now take turns doing their best mocking representation of sidewalk protesting. “No,
Les. We’re not gonna’ protest,” Cass says. “Go ahead and change the station back to the way it
was. We don’t protest, we advocate.” Morna winks at Les.

The group from the station mingles with Cass and her students. The man who had the
dream about the quicksand wants to know where they are going. Cass explains they are joining a
group of native people who have set up a community in some nearby caves a short distance from
the station.
“We’re gonna’ stay with them for a while, get some ideas on how they live and…who
knows...maybe set up a station of our own farther down the tracks.” The line dance instructor
asks about dancing. Cass tells her how interesting it would be to blend her line style with the
native ceremonial dances.
The two farmers offer to help grow food. The woman, who was knitting in the Share
shop, holds up her wears.
“I can help make clothes.” The businessman steps forward holding up his cell phone.
“I can send text messages…if anyone needs to.”
“Then, it’s settled,” Cass says. “You’re all coming with us.” She finds Morna and slips
her arm around her waist. “Will you come?”
Morna puts her arm around Cass’ shoulders. “Of course, I will come. ‘No reason to stray
is the best reason to go.’ "
“Which famous person said that?”
“Milner comma Morna.”
Les sees Holloway emerging from the station with several of the other men. They are
carrying batons, clubs and bats as if they are on their way to a street fight. Les intercepts
Holloway before he reaches the platform.

“What are you doing?” Holloway’s teeth are clenched so tightly, his cheeks vibrate
uncontrollably.
“Back off, pup. Let the big boys handle this. We’re gonna’ beat them silly then stick their
sorry asses on the real westbound train when it arrives.”
“No, Holloway. Our orders are to put the station back to the way it was and to get these
people on a westbound train. That’s happening. No need for violence.” Holloway steps closer to
Les who takes a wide stance in front of him.
“You’re stirring up revolution, Bumberton.” Holloway is shaking, his face as red as the
station roof.
“That’s an order.” Les shifts his weight from one foot to the other. The two men are nose
to nose now in the kind of standoff the older agent is used to winning. But Les is startled by what
he now sees in the man’s face and hears in his labored breathing: fear. Holloway gasps and tries
to turn away as though by doing so he can deny it. But it’s too late. For the first time Les
recognizes the cycle about to be played out in this operation like in so many others before it. Fear
morphs into anger, then hatred and, ultimately, violence to be inflicted mindlessly on the easiest
and the closest victims.

Holloway looks away. He drops his baton kicking the ground with his foot as he yells at
the squad to follow him into the station.
“Way to handle the Boomer Brigade,” Morna says linking her arm with Les’. “Hate to
disappoint ole’ Bullet Brain, but there are no Che Guevara’s here, though I thought he always
looked good in his green fatigues and black beret.”

“Let’s get going, folks,” Cass calls out from the foot of the cab. “I wanna’ make sure we
score a cave with a view.” Les walks Morna to the ladder.
“I guess this is goodbye.”
“That’s right, my brave knight in Brooks Brothers armor. I’m off to find a new horizon.”
“I’m curious.” He calls after her. “If you’re not looking to protest or start a revolution,
what exactly are you looking to change?” Morna looks in the direction of Holloway, then back at
Les.
“I think you know the answer to that question.”
The train is belching smoke now as metal and steam strain against one another in an
effort to move. Cass leans out of the cab.
“Let our adventure begin,” she says, “and in the immortal words of…of…Oh, hell, I
don’t know any immortal words. Let’s just get going.”
Les watches the train wind its way down the tracks. Morna leans out of the cab waving to
him, her golden hair flapping in the breeze like a flag she proudly displays. The chatter of voices
in the rail cars slowly subsides as the train pulls farther away. It soon disappears from view,
swallowed by the majestic desert surrounding it. As Les turns toward the station, he senses
something taking root in his mind. A feeling? A thought? An idea? He isn’t sure, but can’t wait to
find out.
He claps his hands, lets out a yell and two steps his way back to the station.


