As was his habit, the boy paused briefly on his way to the pier. The bronze man, who in
truth was mostly green, had been damaged by age and exposure to the weather. An external and
powerful force had removed and mutilated the right side of his body. Even given these injustices
the bronze man looked forward with a stoic, yet peaceful, face. Dressed in a long robe, hands
folded together passively across his lower chest, he reflected calm and peacefulness. The boy
loved the statue. The boy also knew that the statue loved him as well. The routine of the early
morning visits provided an anchor for the boy.
This was one of the reasons the boy had stopped by the statue daily since his father’s
disappearance. Shows of peacefulness were lacking in the boy’s world now– in reality they had
always been lacking. The lack was more particularly defined and potent since his arrival in the
city. The boy had arrived in New Shanghai, at age five. The boy had been too young to
understand the reasons his family had left their home in Saudi Arabia to travel here, leaving their
possessions and friends behind. As the boy grew, the topic was never discussed. If the boy
questioned the reasons for the move his mother grew mute. His father would leave the apartment,
returning late in the night smelling of tobacco even though it had been pronounced haram –
forbidden – to believers. The boy did not feel his father still carried belief in anything, even
though his mother adhered to Islam.

The only thing the boy believed in was the statue.

The boy always wanted an explanation for the move. He still awoke covered in stale
sweat, the smell of fear. In his dreams, the boy vividly relived the way he was hidden in a bag in

the overheard compartment on the plane. He would awake face down in his pillow convinced
that he was again being forced to wear a hot and suffocating mask, as he had been for the entire
flight. The boy, Ahriman, had been terribly afraid that he would be forgotten in the compartment
and die. In his dreams he watched himself die nightly in that compartment; blooding his hands as
he tried to break out. Screaming in vain for his parents to free him. Promising that he would be a
“good” boy, wondering if he would become a ghost when he died. In the real experience, the boy
had prayed to Allah to keep him safe and to let his death be painless. He was dreadfully afraid of
pain, as most five-year-old boys are.

In reality Ahriman slept for the majority of the flight, immersed in dreams running with
his pet dog Mahzur while hunting rabbits in the watermelon fields near the home he was being
torn away from in the real world. Mahzur, was technically a “working dog”, not a pet. Owning a
dog as a pet was illegal in Saudi Arabia. Ahriman’s father consistently make Ahriman recite the
ways in which Mahzur “worked” for the family, the tasks he performed and the certifications the
dog had received in the work animal courses. Mahzur was a golden Saluki who was an excellent
sight hunter, and he was the boy’s best friend. Perhaps his only friend; until the statue.

Ahriman resented his parents for the way he was forced to stay indoors in their new
“home” upon their arrival in New Shanghi. During the days, Ahriman and his mother sat in
silence inside of the small apartment and never went out. The fact that they could not make noise
or look out of the window made him furious. Ahriman tired quickly of the games of making the
stains on the wallpaper into animals

The boy remembered overhearing his father talking about how they were unwanted here.
During the day, father went to the Sciencetarium to work. His mother would do school lessons

with the boy. He tired of the mildewed and torn school books his parents made him work in. At
night, the young boy would sometimes sneak looks out at the streets. The bronze man glowed
bright against the night. An iridescent aura surrounded the bronze man. The young boy felt that
the bronze man held all of the love that was left in the world and was trying to transfer some of it
to him thorough the window. The bronze man was really an angel, and the boy was the only one
who knew. As Ahriman watched at night, other people would touch the statue and receive small
boxes, understood to be magical gifts by the boy, from the right side of the bronze man. Ahriman

never dreamed he would be free to walk on that street. His parents had ripped him from his life,
tortured him and conspired to keep him from the bronze man. He never felt he would be closer
to the bronze man than he was in that window. Completely confined indoors, Ahriman could not

imagine a better experience than being able to touch the statue and receive a magical gift. The
boy spent hours of his youth trying to predict the contents of “his” box in his bed each night.

Sometimes Ahriman imagined his box would contain a hundred Ramadan pastries or
packets of mint tea. Other times he thought the box would contain a ball or hoop to play with.
Often the box contained a large sum of money in his mind that he would use to fly his family
back home. This prediction was always bitter sweet. The boy could never decide if he wanted to
bring his parents back with him. The boy knew that this anger towards his parents was wrong,
but he had no way out of it. He could not respect parents who did not trust him with the truth.

When the loneliness of the confinement of the apartment weighed on him so physically
that his back ached and he felt he could not get enough air into his lungs, Ahriman’s box

contained a magic whistle. The magic whistle that would call Mahzur to him, so they could run
away and find new types of fields to run in.

When the impossible happened, the boy was older, but not yet over his dreaming of this
moment. The boy spoke softly to the statue, placing his hand in the cratered right side left by the
bomb. His skin prickled with electric nerves and excitement. “I am Ahriman, you remember
me?” the boy began. “You are Confucius,” the boy said running his fingers along the name and
other text engraved on the base of the statue. “We must remember each other so that we do not
disappear. “Then standing the boy stated a little louder in an adolescent, cracking voice, “When
the Great Principle prevails, we will be wanted again.”
Ahriman’s father, Insar, had often talked quietly at night, in their old life, of this Great
Principle. The boy loved to sit on his father’s lap while he talked and read aloud to his mother,

Aamirah. It seemed an omen that the statue had these words engraved on its base. That was the

first time Ahriman had touched the Bronze Confucius. This was after the bombings, after Insar
had stopped coming home, after the man in grey had come to the door. The man in grey had
looked past Aamirah and, seeing the boy, mumbled “unfortunate” while shoving an envelope to
Aamirah through the chained door. Ahriman had just turned eleven. His mother had somehow
gotten an apple for Ahriman as a gift.

The money from the man in gray was gone in three weeks. Aamirah was sick and
coughing up blood within another five weeks. Still, Insar did not come back. Aamirah waited for
seven days, the number of days that Hagar ran desperately between Mount Safa and Mount

Marwah in her attempt to save Ishmael, her son. Allah was clearly not impressed with Ahriman’s
practices. God was as lost as everything else in this world except the statue, and Aamirah just
continued to fade away.
“Mother,” Ahriman tried to speak calmly to Aamirah, but it was hard to keep his voice
under control. He fought to be both respectful and authoritative. He was, after all, the man of the
house for now at least, and probably forever. The boy understood the reality of the events, even
if his mother did not. “There is no choice mother. I must go outside. I know how to get money,
you have to be rational.”

How many times had Insar said the same thing when arguing with Aamirah? Ahriman

tried to straighten himself in order to be taller.
“You are not to be seen. It is the rule,” Aamirah replied. Her teeth were stained with blood and
she wheezed as she spoke.
“It was father’s rule. As far as I can tell he’s never coming back”, Ahriman tried to sound more

angry than scared. He was not at all sure that he had pulled it off, but he continued.
“I am the man of the house now!” he spoke loudly and towered over the sobbing form of his
mother on the mattress she had shared with Insar.
“I forbid it!” Aamirah’s voice was stronger for a moment and then she collapsed into
coughing again.

“You are no longer in charge, but to be honest, you never were,” shouted the boy. The
adolescent crack returned to his voice.
Ahriman watched his mother’s face freeze in confusion and fear. His rage blurred his
vision and distorted Aamirah’s face into an unrecognizable montage of emotion. His mother
seemed already on her way to becoming a ghost and Ahriman felt sick. Regardless on this, the
boy could not stop himself. He looked hard into Aamirah’s face and stated forcefully, “Do not
leave the house. I will be back.”

Ahriman acted quicker than his mother could comprehend the situation. He moved faster
than she could react as well. In her greatly weakened state this was not saying much, but the boy
took no chances. Grabbing his father’s work jacket from the hook by the door, Ahriman ran
from the apartment into the cold of the early, lightless morning.
He worried. What if he was wrong? What if it wasn’t there? What if the bronze man was
one more falsehood – one more disappointment?

Ahriman, frozen in this point in time, struggled alone in the compartment of his isolation.
The sidewalk morphed into a recreation of the trip when he was five, stopped at the statue.
Looking around he put his shaking hand into the hole in the right side and removed the small
box. It was not a magical gift. There was no whistle with the promise of his dog and watermelon
fields, but there was something there. He almost cried when he felt it. Ashamed and scared,
Ahriman quickly shoved it into his jacket and spoke to the statue quietly, as if in prayer. “Do not
forget us”, and under his breath, “please do not forget me”. Everyone else has, he thought.

Feeling dirty and dishonest, the boy ducked into an alley and hid behind a large
dumpster. Ahriman felt completely disoriented. He had not been outside for six years. The sights,
sounds and noises overwhelmed him. His head felt ready to explode. He looked around for
anything that was familiar but could not read the fluorescent signs that were beginning to blink in
the morning sky. He could not see the sun, but only a hazy smear of yellow where it was rising.

The air was heavy and burned his nose and lungs. He coughed hard and his head
throbbed. His heart pounded as he looked closer at the box. There was a set of numbers and
letters written on it. These seemed like the labels on the goods that Insar had brought home from
the dock.
Insar had talked to Aamirah about the “market” at the dock a couple of times in the last
year at night when his parents thought Ahriman was asleep. Apparently, The State was aware of
the existence of the market but allowed it because it placated the “citizens”. From his
eavesdropping Ahriman understood that this market is where Insar had gotten the set of wireless
handheld communication devices his parents used sparingly to communicate during the
technology riots that had begun to occur every month or so and kept Insar confined at the
Sciencetarium for days at a time. Once, the area was actually bombed. Insar had been gone for
three weeks. Ahriman’s parents had stayed in touch for the first week and then the devices failed.
When Insar had returned home, and Ahriman had faked sleep, he told Aamirah about the loss of
a hundred Scienectarium workers in a single instant and his own entrapment in an elevator for
five days. Insar felt as if he would die in the elevator.

Aamirah had wondered aloud if Ahriman had felt the same fear on the trip in. he cried
then and Insar sought to comfort her. It was the closest thing to an explanation or apology that
Ahriman had ever received from either of his parents. The boy still hated them both for that.

Slowly, things fell into place in his head. Ahriman had watched people put their hands

into the statue for years. He had assumed it was a thing people did for luck, like the way that
people in his homeland thought certain stones were lucky. A superstition. In a way, it was both.
They were making drops to be delivered to the dock. It was all too similar to how Insar had
talked to Aamirah about the “market” at the dock to not be what was happening. Ahriman did not
open the box. He did not think he wanted to know what he was going to be carrying. He was
scared enough already. This was a world he knew nothing about. Yet, he had no options. His
mother was going to die unless he could find a solution. His father had most likely been killed at
the Sciencetarium. So, without any real experience, and only secondhand, pilfered knowledge of
the world he was walking into, Ahriman, not yet a teenager, headed towards the dock.

The smell of salt assaulted his nose from blocks away. The world was so much louder
than he could have ever imagined within the confines of the family’s apartment. It was still early
but there were people on the streets talking and yelling at each other. As Ahriman looked around
he was nearly run over by a two-wheeled cart of some sort that was not pulled by an ox or mule.
It seemed to run itself and carry a man as well as cargo. Most people were on bicycles and on
foot. There were few pack animals to be seen.

The clanging and clanking of metal pots announced the cooking of food in some of the
buildings. The buttery scent of eggs caused Ahriman’s stomach to growl. It had been years since

he had eaten eggs. There were peddlers selling codes to access the knowledge net to find out
about the day’s news. This seemed a straightforward thing, like a newspaper, but it ran inside
glasses that people wore. Ahriman could not understand it all.

Overwhelmed and scared of being discovered as a thief, Ahriman kept his head down and
walked into the dock area. He was glad for the bulk of his father’s jacket and hoped it helped him
look older. The boy focused on standing at his full height without slouching.

Ahriman found the slip at the dock after having to ask strangers for help. Thankfully the
men seemed completely disinterested in him, preferring to stare at their glasses instead. He had
then needed more help and instinctively chose women to ask. They were kind and helpful and
pointed past the ships and freighters. A small boat was secured there, and a young man sat on the
dock nearby drinking tea.
The man looked up quizzically and shrugged. “Guess you are new?” The man stood
slowly, “I swear the bronzes just keep sending younger and younger carts. I suppose they are
running out of experienced ones.” The man slid his finger across his neck. The man was dark
skinned and wore a colorful suit that covered his whole body. A mask of some sort hung around
his neck. There was a clip on his right ear that seemed to be making noise.

Ahriman kept his head down and prayed that the voice that came out would sound like a
man’s instead of a girl’s. Thankfully it did. “Yes, I am new”. He breathed deep and tried to stand
taller. He placed his hands in the pockets of Insar’s work jacket so that the shaking of his hands
was not obvious.

“As long as you got the box, I don’t care who you are”. Ahriman almost dropped the box
retrieving from Insar’s jacket but handed it to the young man.
“Here is the cart fee”, the man pressed some bills into Ahriman’s hand. “Maybe I’ll see
you again, maybe not,” he laughed, “depends on how good you are at avoiding the light.”

Ahriman nodded, unsure of what to do. He walked back towards downtown. Once in a

shop, labeled in Arabic instead of Chinese, Ahriman pulled out the money. It seemed like a lot,

but he had no real idea if it was. Ahriman spoke with the man at the counter when no one was
around.

The boy explained that he wanted to buy something to help his mother with her pain.
After Ahriman gave a few more details about Aamirah’s health the man gave him some liquid
that he explained would help with pain and sleep. “It’s the scourge,” the man behind the counter
explained, “if you want to be kind, give it all to her at once”, the man explained. “And then get
the hell away for her before you get it.”

Ahriman bought bread, and a small piece of candy for his mother as well and left with
only coins in his pocket and a lump in his throat. The money had not gone very far. Ahriman
wandered the city for a long time but saw none of it. Instead the boy thought about the grapes
that had grown near his home in Saudi Arabia, and how his mother had fed them to him off the
vine when she was harvesting them. Aamirah had always sang as she worked and thinking of this
made the boy inside of Ahriman tear up. He hid in an alley and cried into Insar’s jacket.

He thought about Insar and his belief in the Great Principle. His father really

believed that the whole world could and would work together to cultivate peace. It was just a
realty that had not yet happened in his father’s eyes. Insar felt that it would happen in his lifetime
– that somehow everyone would be valued and wanted equally. He spoke of “everyone being
welcome at the feast”. The doors would be open for everyone when the Great Principle was
finally embraced and accepted.

The hazy light of the sun disappeared into the coming night as Ahriman stepped out from
the alleyway and made his way back up the roads to the apartment. He had been observant and
did not lose his way. He passed by the Bronze man and lightly touched his hand. “I will see you
tomorrow”, the boy pronounced.

Going back into the apartment for the last time, Ahriman knew his mother would

apologize and hug him. She would be grateful for the food and the medicine. Aamirah would not

ask what he had done, only if there was going to be enough money. Ahriman would tell his

mother that it was going to be fine. The boy would not tell her that there was only enough money

for him.


