“There you are!” Golan shouts upon sighting Seran, gliding downward to his side.
“Thought I’d find you here. Master’s quite upset with your progress. Please tell me it’s
not about her.”
Seran says nothing, continuing to watch the human he’s assigned to.
Golan stares at Seran, hoping for a response sufficient enough to explain how one
known to be ruthlessly effective in carrying out orders has become careless, no worse,
intentionally deviating from command. Once it becomes obvious there will be no
response...
“Who is she, Seran?”
“Just a human.” Seran replies, not once removing his eyes from his target.
“Glad you said that, Seran because that’s exactly what she is - human. And one you
were given orders for if I recall. Orders you have not followed!” retorts Golan, visibly
agitated, and continues.
“I’ve never had to cover for you, Seran, and I don’t like it. Any lower rank would’ve
already dealt with her and moved on. But the fact she was deemed mission-worthy, and
you were assigned to handle her, means something else is going on and the stakes are
high. You’re a general, Seran, for hell’s sake! Have you forgotten?!” Now somewhat
pleading with his comrade.
“I have forgotten nothing, Golan. I am fully aware she is a threat to our kingdom. I’d
simply like to know what that threat is and why Master’s so intent on sifting her as
wheat.”
“That’s not for you to determine, Seran! I shouldn’t have to remind you that in cases
like this, time is of the essence. She’s obviously one of His so the sooner --” Golan
pauses mid-sentence.
“Wait. No… you’re intrigued by her.” Golan eyes Seran more intensely, briefly pondering
the situation, before voicing his accusation in disbelief, “You love this human?!”
Seran’s eyes immediately blaze and target Golan who instantly distances himself before
Seran’s aura reaches him. Though fearful, Golan is relieved by Seran’s outburst in

Sealed
response to his insult. Wings steadying him, he cautiously re-approaches Seran with his
arm across his chest and head bowed.
“My apologies, General. Hold not my brash words against me. Had I pondered longer, I
would have resolved in my being that you are an officer and would not dare. Perhaps a
better selection of words would’ve been to simply ask if visions of nephilim were
traipsing through your mind. Or if, there is something else you wish?” Golan moves
backward slightly, bracing himself.
“What I wish, Golan?” Seran mischievously smirks, obviously amused. “You humour
me.” And then flies off.
Seran now gone, Golan continues to watch the human, contemplating how the situation
can be helped along, appeasing Master, but avoiding Seran’s wrath. He reviews the logs
seeking opportunities where something could be deemed happenstance, or just
consequence – the result of choices humans make – something they forget choosing
instead to blame both God and the devil.
“Yes!” Golan’s eyes beam reflecting his internal state of which he would shout in joy
were it not for his desire to avoid calling attention to himself should others of his kind be
near. He scans the sky for activity, again for Seran’s presence, then begins his descent,
simultaneously chanting to himself,
“Beautiful in form you may be. Protected on High, we shall see.“
Golan’s smile grows wider and more devilish the closer he gets to his target.
“Beautiful in form you may be. Protected on High, we shall see.“
Almost within striking range, a breeze carrying her scent blows past him, further
exciting his nostrils.
“Beautiful in form you may be. Protected on High, we shall see! I too shall have my taste
of you before Master sifts you as wheat.” Quite pleased with himself, Golan extends his
hand, yet before even a hair on her head touches the tip of his finger, a glaring light
appears separating him from his prey. The blood red shield at its center begins emitting
chains from all sides; one piercing Golan’s wrist, another, his thigh, entangling him in
pain.

Sealed
His prey, now just beyond his reach, curiously pauses, obviously sensing something, but
seeing nothing, continues on her way. Once she disappears from view, the light subsides
and Golan is able to see the shield clearly.
“Seran! So you’ve gone as far to have placed your seal on her. Was it not enough for her
to be protected on High that she must now be protected from below too?! ” His pride
hurt more than his wrist or thigh, Golan screams aloud as the seal disappears.
“I cannot cross your seal, but why Seran?! What are you doing?” He yells to the sky, and
again there is no response.


