The Spit was busy, windy, and wet—every parking space filled as tourists, discouraged off
the ocean by the clouds and choppy waves, scurried between gift shops and bars. They were ready to
drop fifty dollars on a couple beers and the briny slurp of oysters. I didn’t have the cash to spare to
join them, and no patience for a packed room anyway. Lucky for me, there was better company to
discover outside.
The old man wore a blazer. Probably for warmth and perhaps for dignity. The square
shoulders of the jacket broadened his slight frame. A fedora sat softly on a white-gray bed of hair,
and his face was encircled by a curly beard. He sat on the wind-protected side of a shack. I hoped he
might make a little room for me.
The other tourists huddled inside to escape the sky’s drizzle and the ocean’s bluster, but I
was happier to have the wind chase me behind a small building for a mixed portion of shelter and
storm. Mid-vacation, I was walking the Homer Spit to scavenge for gifts to carry back to friends and
family—trinkets nodding at Alaskan wildlife, because vistas can’t be wrapped and ribboned. I didn’t
want to return empty handed, and now a storm mid-shopping trip stranded me in this spot, feeling
like an intruder.
The gentleman was settled on a rough bench beside a wooden stall, the wind curving around
it to create a cocoon of stillness with room enough for him and—I hoped—for me.
Beside the man, a guitar leaned against the wooden bench; he held the instrument’s neck
gently, like a woman’s hand. His fingers were long, with sharp finger nails streaked underneath by a
line of coal-gray dirt. His legs were crossed neatly, thin inside his weathered-soft blue jeans. He cast
a sidelong smile my way.
“May I?” I asked, gesturing to the space on the other side of his guitar. I appreciated his
quick nod and steady eye contact. Most people shift their eyes to any trivial thing, signaling
disinterest. He looked at me directly, his eyes inviting conversation.
“Do you play? She’s a beauty. Looks like she’s been with you awhile,” I directed my words
to him and my eyes over the body of his guitar, where the sheen was worn dull from long use. In a
couple places the wood itself was paper thin, nearly translucent, rubbed away with strumming over
how many years, I wondered.

His fingers slid across a few frets as though muscle memory played a song without his
noticing. He pulled a second hand from his blazer pocket, and he lifted the instrument to his lap.
“Even so,” he replied like a man from another time.
“Do you have a favorite song you like to play?”
“I don’t play songs with her, dear,” he replied to me as he nodded his head to her like a
subject to his queen. “She plays the blues. I’m just the delivery man.” His words tripped into a
chuckle and his body found an easy sway. A brown rubber boot began to tap a ¾ rhythm on the
wooden plank at our feet. A waltz, if grade school music still served me well.
He opened his mouth. The voice that groaned from him was half-breeze, half-thunder. It
was a river, rolling stones smooth, or the ocean massaging sands on a beach like a lover. The man
began with a hum, then a mumbling of sounds like he was remembering a language or founding a
new one. Without missing a note, one hand danced to a tuning peg for an infinitesimal turn. The
guitar thrummed a resonant heart beat underneath, then laced a thousand notes into a tune on top.
Like a Himalayan throat singer sends multiple notes from his voice box simultaneously, this man
and his guitar produced a full orchestra, but without being showy about it.
Come gather round people
Wherever you roam
And admit that the waters
Around you have grown
My breath heaved in salt-tinged air deeper into my lungs than I’d breathed in a year, then slid
back out of me, silky and slow. With each exhale, I exorcised a ghost of regret. That fight with my
daughter when I yelled red-faced, shaming her for trying on a word of defiance to see how it fit.
That vulture of fear sitting on my shoulder all the time, whispering about money, and cancer rates
among women my age. That resentment that builds over time between spouses, knowing no matter
how good we are to each other, we are also the death of possibilities. And with each inhale, I gave
my own desires a little oxygen. He continued to sing.
And accept it that soon
You’ll be drenched to the bone
The wind dropped for a moment like it too wanted a listen. No one passed us on the
boardwalk. Our bench on the wind-sheltered side of a water-taxi hut was a secret concert hall for
two. One artist and a one-member audience; one musician and his newly found groupie for life. I
brazenly looked up from the guitarist’s fingers to his countenance. He was as casual as Friday. I

Delivery Man
expected him to be enraptured—eyes closed, or open and burning and swallowing the horizon.
Instead he gave me a nonchalant wink and played his holy canticle with an ordinary glance, now and
then, to his fingers or across the few yards of boardwalk to a cluster of yarrow, its white blossoms
nodding in the wind like a half-hearted congregation. These two—guitar and guitarist—are an old
married couple, I realized, not a new fling.
Come mothers and fathers
Throughout the land
And don’t criticize
What you can’t understand
Your sons and daughters
Are beyond your command
He riffed and rambled with the melody, carrying me down seven roads to seven new
wonders of the world. I stopped watching and leaned back, resting my head on the wall behind us. I
closed my eyes. I felt through my feet the tap of his boot and sensed on my cheek the vibrations cast
like a net from his instrument. His voice raised goose bumps on my arms, and his song took all the
cold and weariness from my bones, treated them like kindling, lit them on fire, then delivered the
flame straight to my heart. Did he realize what he was doing? I sat, he played, and the solar system
realigned for a few minutes around a different sun.
Your old road is rapidly agin’
Please get out of the new one
If you can’t lend your hand
For the times they are a changin’
As he caressed the final notes, the silence filled the growing spaces between sound, settling
on me like a blanket. I had feared a vacuum, an absence, but received instead a calm I might manage
to take with me. I turned toward him carefully, not wanting to disturb the peace he had conjured. I
looked in his eyes and he didn’t turn away from mine. Then a strong gust kicked up and the spell
blew away.
“Well. Thank you for that. You are an exceptional musician.”
“Ah, I just got lucky enough to find my instrument,” he said, rubbing the hourglass contours
of her hollow, reverberating body.
I unzipped my purse and pulled out my wallet, wanting so much to give him a pittance. A
twenty was in my hand when I looked up to see him scold me with his eyes.

Delivery Man
“If I wanted your money, my hat would be up-turned on that wood in front of me. This
one’s on me. A gift for takin’ the time—and for knowing my guitar is a she not an it. She’s most
thankful to you for that.”
I pushed my money back into my purse, ashamed I might’ve turned the encounter into a
transaction. I felt my spiritual poverty. It tasted like the beginning of wisdom.
He settled his guitar back on the bench beside him as I stood, turning to shake his hand. He
took my hand in his, and I warmed at his gentle, God-like touch. “You have a good day, m’dear.”
“Thank you. You too. Thank you for the song. Truly.” I turned to go. Then I went. I caught
one last glance at the musician as I rounded the corner. He looked just as he did when I’d arrived.


