“This is a good time,” I could hear Ingrid discussing my last day, “the Autumnal equinox.
A good time for the soul.” It always was. When winds from the north suggested the coming
chill, it was a time to rejoice and celebrate. It made working day shifts at the chemical plant less
oppressive and meant Oktoberfest would soon be upon us. This one we will not have together,
but share a wealth of memories of so many fine times in years past.
It was usually about this time of year when the carnival camps sprouted on the edge of
our town like forest mushrooms after a persistent rain. They came in odd assortments of trucks
and trailers selling goods and performing services for a week or so before moving on to the next
town or country on their annual circuit. Villagers warned young people about the tricks and
treachery that come with the vagabonds, but we would find subtle ways to make our way out
there to see for ourselves.
The first time I took Ingrid to the camps, we were celebrating her seventeenth birthday.
Taken out of saddle bags, actually on a donkey, I bought her a necklace made of shells from
Greece. From the back of an American station wagon, with panels designed to look like wood
on the sides, we took home an exercise hoop designed as practice for hula dancing. A
Volkswagen van, painted with images from tarot cards and neon peace signs, was mounted with
a large replica of a fortune teller’s crystal ball on top. Up two wooden steps, through the open
back doors, the silhouette of an old woman’s curling finger beckoned our presence.
Elaborate decorations inside the van created an eerie sensation of dread and excitement.
Candles on a covered wooden crate separated us from the costumed witch whose touch, as she
gestured over our open palms, was cold, dank, and dusty. Before the session reached its end, she


foretold that our lives were destined to weave together and then apart but, in the end, would be
served by the love we shared between us. We spilled out and down those steps, loudly teasing
each other with newly learned bits of future foretold. A tall man in an extravagant weave of
colored sashes was stationed to impart some order among the unruly. He bent in our direction
with a long finger to his lips, suggesting we preserve the mystery of the moment. We laughed
and pulled each other by the hand, away from the gypsy camp, kicking through the beautiful
carpet of autumn leaves that night and all the memorable times that followed.
“This is indeed a good time,” Ingrid was saying in German to someone next to her, “for
the transcendent soul. A change of season; light to dark to light again. Joy to suffering and then
back to joy.” I chose to believe that the Flemish nurse, Ada was her name, understood those
words but either way, it made little difference. Ingrid’s care and assistance had been miraculous
in getting me to Belgium and the hospital transfer here to Liege. She studied as different
national laws were codified and stayed current with the unfolding legalities that would ultimately
allow us to come here. Without her help I may still be in Aachen, beyond the searing, writhing
pain of the early stages, through the anguish of knowing the disease would continue, eating
through organs and tissue unabated, for as long as tissue is still alive.
I have no sense of how long my eyelids have been too heavy to open. I hear an
unfamiliar voice, with a phrase perhaps obscured by accent or dialect, announce what I
understand to mean the medication is now injected into the drip. There are other words afloat in
the room, but the spaces in their sequence stretch farther apart. I am aware of no localized pain,
and the sensation of Ingrid’s fingertips brushing across the back of my inert fingers turn into a
different kind of feeling altogether. It becomes a light sea breeze caressing the back of my hand

3

and rippling the hairs on my arms like a gentle, incoming tide. The unknown voice speaks again
of a recent patient who reported seeing Jesus hover above the bed when this time came for him.
My vision is a different one. It expands and envelopes me.
We are at Juist that August with our feet in the sand as the North Sea softly washes
around them. We are in our thirties and I lean toward her to kiss salt water residue from the
corners of her eyes. This is her first trip from the city after divorce from the clerk she chose to
wed as a result of my steadfast refusal. Foolish and resolute in my youth, I had insisted that the
premise of marriage was an artificial social construct and a false institution.
We turn to run from the rushing tide and find asylum down a different, narrow path
beneath a majestic canopy. With the tastes of local wine and picnic and each other’s lovemaking on our lips, we whisper that we could lie there forever, on the deep, soft matted floor of
the Black Forest that June. We lament that we cannot. There is the long drive north, back to my
shift at the plant the next day. An unexpected rain waited for us to emerge from our resplendent
hideout, forcing us to manage uncertain footing down the precipitous path.
Now, we are again tripping down the steps behind that Volkswagen van. Our light,
nervous laughter tries to obscure the shivering uncertainty bestowed on us by the old witch
inside. The tall old man waits in a dark and hooded costume this time, and bends forward as I
approach. The long, twisted finger pointed at me curls in on itself and, as it does, pulls me in the
same direction. We turn and, in the flickering light of the campfire, I see the stunted maple trees
and the gnarled passages between them.

***


