Dionysus, god of fun, has been pouring wine down Zeus’ mighty throat all night. Cupid,
god of sweet loving, makes suggestions on the fine arts of seduction and prods Zeus: Zeus is hot.
Zeus is hot. Zeus is hot. No, Zeus says. I’ll tell you who is hot. Hephaestus is hot. Hephaestus is
a fucking forge. Everyone laughs. Zeus is the life of the party.
Eris, god of sass and mischief, is bored. He wants something fun to happen, so he points
out the nymphs sloping down the field into the stream. Look, Eris whispers to Zeus. Supple and
delicious. Zeus cranes his neck to see well. Eris says, Look at the one in the middle. Eris knows
Zeus’ tastes. In the middle of a knot of nymphs is one woman who seems to anchor the flow,
more beautiful by leagues than anyone else; she laughs frequently and her smile is crooked and
unparalleled. Why haven’t I seen her before? Zeus asks. He closes his eyes. Momentarily, Zeus
is tired. He has known many women and forgotten many faces and sometimes it runs together for
him. For a moment he asks himself, Why do I need more?
Eris notices Zeus turn pensive and, not wanting to lose his entertainment, sidles his
advice up next to Zeus’ elbow. Maybe you want to go slow, he says. Nymphs like the slow
approach. Why do you think they like Apollo so much?
Apollo? Zeus sits up straight and looks—eyes wide—over at where the golden god plays
his harp, surrounded by a crowd of enthralled men and women. A thin crackle of lightning plays

over Zeus’ brow. Apollo? The pansy? He sits around all day playing music, hoping that someone
will seduce him. Eris shrugs and raises his hands, palm up.
Slow approach, Zeus mutters. A real god takes what he wants.
He looks again to the nymphs. This one has dappled hair. One moment it’s a deep, earthy
chestnut, and then it’s catching the sunlight and it looks like running water. Her hair spills over
her body and obscures it from Zeus’ eyes. There’s something mutable about her, something
fluid. He can’t pin her down.
Eris murmers, They say she is the nicest, the sweetest of all the nymphs. I wonder what
she wants?
I’ll tell you what she wants, Zeus says. I’ll tell you what she wants. She wants a little bit
of the king of the gods. That’s what women want and she, my little friend, is a woman.
Eris nods as if Zeus has said something wise.
What’s her name? Zeus asks.
Nemesis, Eris says.
Nearby, Zeus’ regal wife Hera is laughing vastly at something Aphrodite is saying.
Distract her a while, Zeus tells Echo. Echo, nymph, is always hanging about near Zeus. He
always says, Echo, my favorite, distract my wife for a while. And she does. She wonders, as she
has wondered before, why he’s always running after the other nymphs if she’s his favorite.
Maybe she should say no. No I won’t cover for you one more time while you go fuck someone.
She stomps over to Hera, puts on a chipper grin and says, You’ll never guess the gossip I have.
Zeus struggles to his feet. Athena and Hermes, reasonable and tired of the fracas that
boils up every time things tilt in this direction, try to step in his way. Zeus—bigger, stronger,

Everything Gets Worse—3
majestic—brushes them away and brushes his hand over his wet mouth. His teeth are winesoaked. He smooths his wild eyebrows. My Nemesis.
Echo, all appeasing smile, tells Hera a story about a mortal boy she has spotted who
might just be as beautiful as Apollo. She gestures with emphatic hands. Hera, enchanted by the
story, watches Echo intently. She doesn’t see her husband’s big, staggering steps as he heads
down the hill. Zeus is not exactly subtle, yet Hera never sees him running off.
Zeus builds up speed. He’s too inebriated to resist accelerating. The nymphs scatter like
game birds flushed out by a hunting dog. Zeus stays focused and heads straight towards his
Nemesis. Nemesis, terrified, explodes like a runner from a crouch.
Ho ho, she runs! says Zeus.
Why always with the running? he wonders. Why these games? He is the king of the gods,
the one worshipped by all. Is he not a man who can cut the testicles off his own titanic father and
stuff them down his throat, take his throne and imprison him with chains the size of mountains,
deep in the earth? Why would women run from one so majestic?
And yet, he’s been here before. So many women and men, so much running.
Puzzling, that’s what it is.
Europa ran. Zeus had to turn into a bull and carry her across the ocean to Crete.
The beautiful titan Asteria ran all the way across the heavens before jumping from the
sky and changing to an island to get away. And who wants to fuck an island? In that case, Zeus
felt he’d lost the game. But he made sure that Asteria remained an island forever. So in that
sense, he felt he’d won.

Everything Gets Worse—4
Eurymedousa kept eluding him until he transformed into an ant; she didn’t even see antZeus coming. Zeus doesn’t brag about that because ants aren’t majestic. Nonetheless, he won by
doing it, and that was what mattered. She bore his ant-son, Myrmidon.
Ganymede. Alkmene. Kallisto.
Mortals run because they like games, he concludes. He likes games too.
This one is lithe. But he is the father of gods. He is only a few strides behind her. She
veers towards the river. She’ll have nowhere to go, he thinks, disappointed that the chase will be
over soon. She’s at the river. His hands can almost grasp her waist.
But she doesn’t stop. Instead she leaps off the bank of the river. His hands close on air.
He pulls up short and watches as she transforms, mid-leap, into a trout. She slices into the water
and powers upstream.
For a few seconds Zeus just stares at the fish form swimming away. A nymph who can
transform on her own? This is new, he thinks.
What fun!
He splashes into the water and he is a beaver, pushing after her with his mighty tail. He
swims and swims and swims. Sometimes he gets closer, sometimes he lags. He is not catching
her despite his best efforts. He finds it frustrating and very exciting. He has a beaver erection.

***

Hera is growing tired of Echo’s storytelling. Echo’s stories all sound the same, like she’s
repeating herself. Dionysus, who was initially interested in Echo’s stories, is now bored. He
takes over. He claps a hand over Echo’s mouth to shut her up and then he tells a joke. Midway

Everything Gets Worse—5
through he kicks his legs up and falls on his back to emphasize a point, but who’s clear about
what his point is? Echo pouts. She liked her story. She liked her story. Hera looks around.
Where’s Zeus? she thinks.
Where’s Zeus? she says.
Zeus? Echo asks. She looks at her feet.
Hera stamps her foot. Not again.
Tell me he hasn’t run off after some other woman, she says. She pulls Echo close to her
face.
He hasn’t run off after some other woman, Echo says.
Hera throws her to the side. People are watching now. Hera straightens her shoulders.
What do I care what my husband does? Hera says, as dignified as possible.
But she does care. She always cares too much, every time.
You, she says. She points at Echo. I’ll deal with you later.

***

Nemesis and Zeus are long out of sight around the river’s bends. Nemesis can feel the
beaver following her. It’s awful. He can't catch her. Zeus has stayed right behind the zig-zagging
trout and made up ground, and now his long beaver teeth almost have her but at the last second
she jumps like she’s leaping up a waterfall. She lands on the riverbank on galloping hooves.
She’s now an antelope.
No! says Zeus. He was so close!
His beaver paws touch the bank and he becomes a lion.

Everything Gets Worse—6
And so it goes. Every time he gets close enough to almost touch her, she surprises him
with a new form and then he’s playing catch-up again. She changes to a dragonfly; he changes to
a swallow. She’s a hare, he’s a fox. Bat, albatross. Mole, vole. Through endless fields and
meadows, up mountains and down streams, into the vigilant sea, through air, under the ground. It
goes like this for hour after hour.
Zeus was enjoying the game, but he is enjoying it less and less. No one has ever run away
from him for this long. There is a nagging, annoying feeling in his brain that maybe this woman
is running because she doesn’t want him to catch her. He shakes his head to clear away these
ridiculous thoughts. This is why he doesn’t much like it when the wine wears off. Questions
press in like headaches. Zeus hates questions.
But it’s too late. Zeus is thinking. He remembers being chased once, by the titan Typhon.
Typhon pursued him around the world trying to kill him. Zeus couldn’t escape because Typhon
was taller than a mountain. The titan cut off the tendons in Zeus’ arms and legs and then stuffed
him in a cave. Zeus had never been as helpless or irate as he was in that cave, unable to move.
After Hermes stole and restored his tendons, Zeus raised the entire Mount Etna over his head and
cast it down upon Typhon; that is how mighty Zeus is.
But he has lost a step since his tendons were removed. Sometimes the old wounds ache.
Sometimes he wakes up in the middle of the night with a start and he wakes Hera so she can get
him a cup of milk with a spot of honey and massage his arms and legs.
Things are changing. Is it possible he is not as great as he once was? He doesn’t like that.
His father, Cronos, overthrew his grandfather, Ouranos. Zeus overthrew Cronos. Could someone
come along and overthrow him? Maybe being king of the gods doesn’t mean always being king
of the gods. Could these mortals ever stop caring about him? Could they ever see him as weak?

Everything Gets Worse—7
He would have caught his Nemesis easily in those days before his tendons were removed.
Feeling helpless, he decides, is the pits. The thought makes him so angry he could smite a
goddamn tree, or rock.
Why do things get degraded? he asks himself.

***

Hera marches into her palace with loud feet. She is so angry. She is the angriest. Why
does this happen again and again to her husband? Hasn’t she proven to these slutty sluts what
will happen if they get on her bad side? Callisto is now a bear. Semele burned to a crisp. Io is a
cow in exile.
Iris! Hera says. Where’s Iris?
Iris is at her side. Fleet Iris, rainbow goddess, Hera’s messenger.
Hera collects herself. She takes a deep breath. She flattens down the silk front of her
peplum. Iris. Dear.
Iris knows the sharp knife-edge hiding behind Hera’s sweet tone. At moments like this
everyone tries to be the least noticeable person alive.
Hera says, Iris. Dear. Find Zeus.
Again? Iris thinks. This is what it means to be immortal: nothing ever changes. It’s the
same fucking thing day after day. We’ll be doing the same thing two thousand years from now.
Of course she says nothing. With a nod she flies away, trailing her rainbow behind her through
the air. She will find Zeus. She always does.

Everything Gets Worse—8
***

Zeus is getting fed up. He’s done. He hates helplessness and all helpless things. I should
flood the earth again and kill all the powerless creatures, he thinks. That makes him smile a
little.
And right then Nemesis stumbles.
She has been weaving through the forest as a reindeer—Zeus is following as a stag—
when she trips, falls to her front knees, picks herself up, and keeps running. Zeus gets closer.
He’s close enough to smell sweaty reindeer scent with a hint of blood. Little spots of blood dot
the ground. It is so mortal of her to be bleeding. So very weak. So very vulnerable. He is at the
same time disgusted by her mortality and intrigued.
She stumbles again. She is getting tired, Zeus can tell. She will give up soon and then he
will have won. Again.
Nemesis and Zeus break out of the trees into a grotto. The water of the lake reflects the
brilliant blue of the sky. The lake is bound on one side by cliffs and a waterfall tumbles over wetmoss walls, throwing mist into the air. There’s a rainbow overhead and a few ducks startle at a
reindeer and a stag barging in on them, but they settle back down on the other side of the lake.
Nemesis will not slow down. She will charge across the lake. She will keep going. But then it’s
too much. She is too tired. The grotto is too beautiful. This is where it has to end, is what she
would think to herself, except that she falls asleep. She is running and then her body accepts its
utter exhaustion. She collapses mid-leap, and her momentum carries her out over the water. She
transforms as she falls and lands, a woman, facedown in the water.

Everything Gets Worse—9
Zeus pulls up next to her. He snorts and pushes her with his hoof. The game is over. He’s
the winner. He turns back into the father of the gods. The ducks are impressed. He turns Nemesis
over so she doesn’t drown, and still she doesn’t wake up. Even unconscious and filthy from
endless running, she is beautiful. Now is the time she will enjoy his godly presence. He tells
himself that he is very excited. He is certain she will enjoy it too. He is the king of the gods. He
is the king of the gods.
He pushes her towards the shore. The ducks, who have drawn close in their curiosity,
scatter and then gather in close again. They worry about Nemesis. Animals have always had an
affinity for her. She is bleeding from her elbow.
Zeus sees Nemesis’s blood ribboning out into the water. He steps back from her but he
doesn’t know why; normally, he’d be having sex by now. But for the first time he doesn’t want
that. For the first time he feels something other than lust when he sees a nymph’s vulnerability.
For the first time he has a faint tickle of understanding, or compassion. He doesn’t like it. He
doesn’t like this new sensation of doubt. It is much less fun than having no doubt. He closes his
eyes and tries to get himself fired up. But then he looks at Nemesis again and she looks so small
and cold.
Zeus notices that a breeze has picked up and is blowing the mist from the waterfall
towards them. Clouds are building overhead. The rainbow has disappeared. Zeus shivers. The
ducks draw close to Nemesis; they press against her to warm her with their feathers. Zeus is
touched by how they care for her. What would it be like to take care of someone? What would it
be like to comfort someone?

Everything Gets Worse—10
He realizes he doesn’t want to have sex with Nemesis; he wants to protect her. He wants
to wrap her up and warm her. He wants to watch over her as she sleeps, for days and days if
needed. He wants to be like the ducks.
And that’s it. He knows how to protect and warm her. He becomes a swan. He is huge.
He is shockingly white. His neck is long and regal. He swims out to Nemesis and presses against
her. He covers her with his broad wings. He pulls her close to his body. His feathers are so soft
and so warm. He will keep her safe. Her elbow will heal. She will be strong. He doesn’t
understand how this is better than the sex, but he knows it is.

***

Iris didn’t see Zeus turn into a swan. But she did see a stag chasing a reindeer. And she
did see a reindeer collapse into the shape of a woman. Iris has learned what to look for. She goes
to fetch Hera. Zeus will be busy for a while.
When Iris returns with Hera, they find a swan pressing a young, sleeping nymph to its
breast. The swan is preening the nymph’s hair. If there’s one thing that Hera recognizes, it’s her
husband. If there’s another thing that Hera recognizes, it’s her husband after sex. Sometimes sex
relaxes him enough that he acts tender for a few minutes. Sometimes he will rub Hera’s back a
little, or look her in the eyes and stroke her face.
She lands her chariot next to the swan. Zeus had his eyes closed, enjoying this odd
feeling of closeness, but the loud ki-wao cry of the peacocks pulling Hera’s chariot jolts him
awake. He pushes Nemesis away quick as he can, as if saying How did this woman get here?
Nemesis lands in shallow water and wakes. She is infinitely confused. She remembers running

Everything Gets Worse—11
and running and running. But then there was darkness. She remembers her fear, but she also
remembers warmth and comfort. She doesn’t understand why a giant swan is backing away from
her, and a woman is getting out of a chariot. Hera. She knows Hera. Hera is coming towards her
and Nemesis doesn’t like it. There is something stormy about Hera, although she is approaching
calmly. Nemesis backs away.
You. Little one, Hera says to crab-walking Nemesis. Have you been sleeping with my
husband?
No, Nemesis says. No no no. I don’t know where I am.
Are you saying you didn’t sleep with my husband? Hera points at the trying-to-lookinconspicuous swan.
A swan? Nemesis says.
You don’t recognize the king of the gods?
I was tired and fell asleep. He’d been chasing me for hours. Days. I don’t know.
Is this true? Hera asks Zeus.
Zeus shakes his entire long swan neck.
Of course it’s true. Hera isn’t stupid. And she’s not angry. Not exactly. This has
happened too many times to get angry again. She knows all these nymphs and mortals aren’t at
fault—she knows Zeus is a monster. She would love to let these women off scot-free and punish
Zeus instead, but that will never happen.
She is a goddess and a queen. What would happen if she didn’t display her power again
and again? Zeus isn’t the only one who has nightmares of titans and giants. One does not become
the queen of the gods by changing easily, by being flexible. One gets to the top by always being
right, even when one’s wrong. It is one thing that Zeus and Hera share.

Everything Gets Worse—12
Hera is tired. Everyone is tired. She doesn’t like any of this. But this is her job. She runs
her fingers through Nemesis’ hair. Nemesis is shaking. This poor woman. So scared. Hera can’t
forgive her, but at least she can give her a present. How can she know that Nemesis doesn’t want
her present? Who wouldn’t want a present from a god? Hera is the goddess of childbirth, so she
will give Nemesis a child. Hera will then hate this child, because that is part of the equation.
She grabs Zeus by the wing and drags him to her chariot. He is dreading the scene when
they get home. Hera doesn’t know if there will be a scene. She’s exhausted by it all. Nemesis fall
to the damp leaves and weeps. Then she sleeps.
She will have a child, a daughter. From an egg, like a true swan-child. Her name will be
Helen. Helen’ll be fairly pretty. Some things will happen. Some ships will sail. A generation will
die. As sometimes happens with swan-children. You know.
Nemesis hates all of them. People will pray to her for retribution. She always listens.
Zeus does not realize that he set this war in motion when he ran down a grassy hill
towards Nemesis. Mortal men are made to die. He still remembers feeling good when he
protected the nymph. He could end this war in a second. Maybe it would feel good to protect all
these tiny creatures running around with spears and shields. Do fathers of gods show
compassion? He wants to. He wants to. But won’t the other gods see him as weak, feeble? Won’t
one of the other gods replace him, and cut off his testicles?
He rubs his temples. He doesn’t know how to make sense of it all, and it makes his head
hurt, so he goes outside to hurl lightning at things.


