A winding road in Shanghai, Fuxing Lu, cuts through the city’s charming French
Concession. Ninety-foot deciduous Plane trees line the curbs of Fuxing Lu. The trees curl toward
one another and in the summers, they sprout green clusters of maple-like leaves that weave a
verdant canopy over the residents. During this single season, a lush shield protects the
Shanghainese from flashing neon lights and ever growing skyscrapers that dominate the city.
Once controlled by France, this segment of the city earned Shanghai the moniker “Paris
of the East.” Echoes of grandeur call out from the remaining Deco façades. But as the decades
passed, other, more contemporary cultures encroached the building interiors. One summer in
the early aughts, Starbucks planted its roots in an old structure on Fuxing Lu, and started
serving up microwavable sweets and coffee in cups the size of wine bottles. At the time, I was
renting an apartment nearby and this garish reminder of the States couldn’t have been more
welcome. Though I’d avoided the franchise before travelling abroad, I now relished this insolent
emblem of home. In mangled Mandarin, I’d order the largest coffee possible, sit by the window
and watch the locals move up and down the block.
I shared my apartment on Fuxing Lu with Olivier, a 33-year old French-Swiss lawyer. I
was looking for a place in the French Concession and a friend put me in touch with Olivier, who
had a spare room. Over the phone, Olivier told me to meet him on the street, a block from his
apartment. Tall and broad with a poof of blond hair, Olivier was easy to spot in a mostly
Chinese crowd. His eyes were sky-blue, half-closed and inattentive. I had assumed Olivier would

2
show me the apartment straight away, but instead he sauntered up and down Fuxing Lu in an
apparent daze. Every so often he’d lob a question in my general direction. Olivier spoke a
muddled variant of English – it was a version of the language where he always knew exactly
what he was expressing and found it inconceivable that native speakers would ask him to
repeat himself.
“So, tell me, Hana, why do you want to live in China? What is so wrong with these
United States?” Olivier asked me.
I explained to Olivier that I had studied Mandarin in college and wanted to hone my
language skills while immersed in the Culture. I was fascinated by China’s long history and
wanted to get to know the people. This oft-repeated speech generally went over well with the
Western crowd. Olivier responded to my explanation with a long, spaced-out stare. Nothing in
his expression changed and he remained silent. I looked at him askance, wondering if this man
might be hard of hearing. A full minute passed and then he looked me straight in the eye.
“This? This is what you want to learn?” He gestured to the street. Two middle aged
Chinese men sat on stubby stools, hunched over a game of checkers. Neither wore a shirt and
both sucked deeply on cigarettes. There was something about Olivier’s attitude that bothered
me. He seemed close-minded to a world that wasn’t his own and so sure of his own critiques. In
any event, I remember thinking I’d better not sound too enthusiastic about living in China.
“So, what is your job in the U.S.?” Olivier wanted to know.
“Well, I left my job to come to China,” I explained cautiously. “But, right after college I
worked on Wall Street – it was not the type of thing I wanted to do for a lifetime. So, last
December I took my bonus and moved to Shanghai.”

3
“Wall Street, really?” Olivier said skeptically. “And could you wear this outfit to your
Wall Street job?”
I looked down. I was wearing baggy jeans that flared at the bottom and a peasant
blouse. Suddenly, I felt sloppy. “No. I had other clothes.” I said. I wrinkled my nose. What a
fancy pants, I thought to myself.
“And what is it that you do here in China, to learn about the culture?” Olivier said. Was
he being snide or just making sure I had a means to pay rent? I wasn’t sure.
“I’m a student at Jiao Tong university,” I said. “But, I also translate articles from
Mandarin to English on a freelance basis. Translating happens to pay nicely.”
Olivier nodded. “Yes, I have heard that. So, you speak Chinese?”
“Not very well,” I admitted. “I’m much better with reading and writing.”
“One last question,” Olivier said. Something knowing and arch crept into his expression.
“What are you running from?”
I remained silent but my nerves started firing.
“In my experience,” Olivier said, with a broad, teasing smile, “all Westerners in China are
running from something.”
Anxiety swept over me as I dug deep for a smart aleck answer. Alas, I couldn’t come up
with anything in the moment. So, I turned the inquiry around – an avoidance tactic with which
I’ve had a surprising rate of success.
“What are you running from, Olivier,” I asked. I raised a single eyebrow, a trick that had
taken countless hours in front of the mirror to perfect.

4
“Ughhh.” Olivier sighed and ran an agitated hand through the unruly explosion of hair.
“In my case, it is a who that I run from,” he replied. “I moved to China to get away from a
girlfriend. From a very crazy woman.”
“Men always call a girl ‘crazy’ when they’ve dumped a lovely woman for no good
reason,” I shot back.
He laughed. “Maybe.”
I had successfully steered him off topic. “So, what – did she want to get married? Settle
down? Have kids?”
He laughed again. “Why don’t I show you the apartment now? Follow me.”
Olivier led me down an alley. Despite a lovely Deco exterior, the building was in
shambles. I walked past trash heaps to get to the narrow, dank and dungeon-like staircase that
led to the second-floor landing. Olivier pointed out the fuse box in the outdoor corridor. It was
rusty and the door dangled by a single hinge. “This regulates electricity for the entire building,”
he said. We walked to end of the hall past a row of apartment doors all of which had heaps of
rancid shoes piled at the entrance. I could hear the shrill pitch of domestic discontent in one
apartment – a woman shrieking at her husband in Shanghainese dialect. Despite the
surrounding squalor, the interior of Olivier’s apartment bordered on lovely. Olivier showed me
his master bedroom, the small room that would be mine, and the large tree outside the living
room window. The trunk of the tree was as round as a barrel and pale branches sprouted from
every direction.

5
“This tree gives me peace,” Olivier said. A wistful shadow passed over his face. “It is
very special. Some days I come home from work and stare at this tree for an hour. Then I can
function again.”
It was a very pretty tree. Most Shanghai apartment windows faced other Shanghai
apartment windows.
“My parents can’t believe that I am living here,” Olivier told me. “They visited last year
and my mother felt faint in the staircase. She said, ‘Olivier, we put you through the nicest
schools in Switzerland, we paid for your law school. And now you live in this slum? What did we
do wrong?’ I was laughing when she says these things but she was so serious. She kept putting
the back of her hand on her cheeks and mumbling about ‘wasted skiing lessons.’”
#
Despite some initial reservations, I loved living with Olivier. He told me he had a younger
sister my age who he had always ignored. To atone for this transgression against his flesh and
blood, Olivier vowed to dote upon me as an elder brother should. On Saturday afternoons,
Olivier and I would sit on the fake wooden floor drinking Rosé and watching pirated DVDs of
various American television series. The television was old and small and rested on a rickety IKEA
stand in front of the living room window. Olivier loved American television, but he especially
loved the show 24 and we both adored the main character, Jack Bauer. We agreed Jack Bauer
was Kiefer Sutherland’s finest role to date. On one occasion, our wine bottle ran dry at the
same time as Jack’s emotional breakdown in the Season 3 cliffhanger. We looked at one
another in despair.
“What should we do now?” Olivier asked. He was distraught.

6
“I don’t know,” I said. I guess we should get our acts together.” Although I wasn’t quite
sure what that phrase meant it was something I had often heard my mother say.
“How about this,” Olivier suggested. “I will open another bottle of this wine and you will
go down to the street and find Season 4 of this wonderful American television show.”
I smiled and agreed to the plan. Olivier was infinitely wiser than my mother. “Here,
here, take this.” Olivier tried to give me renminbi to buy the next season but I waved him off.
The entire season would cost the equivalent of five dollars.
Downstairs and outside I knew why Olivier wanted me to retrieve the next season.
Olivier disdained chaos and generally avoided outdoor excursions. The air was sweltering,
bicycles whizzed by and the street teamed with people yelling in Mandarin. An overwhelming
smell of rotten eggs assaulted my senses. Where was that smell coming from? At the corner, I
spotted the DVD salesman, his wares spread on a ramshackle, plastic table. At the very tip top
of his lungs he shouted in English, “Watch! Bag! DVD! Watch! Bag! DVD!” Then he saw me
approaching and his excitement soared. “Lady! Lady! Watch! Bag! DVD!” I crossed the street
amidst honking horns and swerving taxicabs to exchange some basic greetings with the street
vendor. He steered me toward the pile of conspicuously fake Louis Vuitton handbags. But, my
eyes rested on the treasure I sought. Tucked underneath The Best of Jean-Claude Van Damme, I
spotted a flimsy cardboard box stamped with the image of Keifer Sutherland’s hardened mug.
Across Keifer’s bulky chest I read the printed words, Sweaty Four. Season 4. I paid for the set
and returned upstairs where Olivier was waiting for me with a freshly poured glass of Rosé.
#

7
It is a universal truth, not often enough acknowledged, that all excellent roommates
rarely occupy the shared living space. Olivier was almost never around. His law firm kept him
busy, he travelled frequently and he had a fiancée, Nicola. During the first few months of living
together I hadn’t met Nicola, but one evening she dropped by unexpectedly. I remember being
impressed by this stylish, dark-haired Croatian beauty in her shimmering mini-dress. I, on the
other hand, was splayed on the couch in my favorite sundress – the one Olivier referred to as
“the nightgown” – and he was sitting on the floor. We were deep into Season 4. A passenger
train had just collided with an explosive-laden truck. Nicola greeted me politely, but I sensed
that she wasn’t as friendly as most expats. Or maybe she was in a bad mood. She informed
Olivier she had a work function and that his presence was requested.
“No, Olivier, I won’t get fired if I don’t go, but it would make a bad impression. Would
you please get up off the floor and come with me? My co-workers are starting to doubt that I
even have a fiancée.”
Oliver didn’t turn away from the television. “You want that I should go dressed like
this?” he said, face glued to the tiny screen. He was wearing pristinely pressed slacks and a blue
button-down shirt. “Nicola, I need more notice for a party. I’m in the middle of a program
here.” As much as I liked Olivier, he sounded like a child whining to his mother. I tried to quell
the swelling tension.
“Olivier, we can just watch this tomorrow,” I said.
“No, I will have to work late tomorrow. I wish to watch tonight.”
“Ok, that’s just great, Olivier,” Nicola said. “You do understand that we are engaged to
be married, right? Part of what that means is that we do things for each other. Another part of

8
what that means is living together. You need to move in with me – you need to grow up and
extract yourself from this weird roommate situation. Living with someone ten years younger
than you are doesn’t make you ten years younger.”
“Um, seven years younger,” I said. I was starting to think less of Nicola. Also, I felt that
her comment was the sort of remark that should have been made behind my back. What’s
more, I had always enjoyed pointing out people’s mistakes to them.
“I didn’t mean any offense to you,” Nicola said. “It’s not personal, it’s just embarrassing
that Olivier refuses to live with his fiancée.”
Truth be told, I thought she might be right. It was weird that Olivier was living with me. I
know it will sound self-centered, but this was the first moment it had occurred to me Olivier
might be afraid of marriage. Or at least, that he might not want to marry Nicola.
Olivier rubbed his eyes. “How about this, Nicola. I will finish 24 tonight and tomorrow I
will take off early and we will have a romantic dinner. Would it be okay? We will discuss our
wedding. I’m sorry, I am just not in the mood for a party.”
Nicola crossed her arms over her chest and looked away.
“Fine, Olivier,” she said. “We’ll have dinner tomorrow. I’ll go to the party alone tonight.”
Nicola turned and walked to the door. Her high heels clacked in anger on the fake wooden
floor.
“It was nice meeting you,” I called out from the couch as she stomped out.
Olivier smiled at me with a roll of his eyes.
“Wow, Olivier,” I said. “I’ve never seen an eye roll where the iris completely disappears
into the socket.”

9
#
As I was falling asleep that night, I thought about Olivier and Nicola’s upcoming dinner. I
wondered where he would take her, how he would make her feel better and what they would
talk about. Would they laugh together? I realized I didn’t want him to go to the dinner with her.
I wanted him to take me instead. But I could understand why he would marry Nicola. She was a
successful professional, very beautiful and presentable. Without ever having met Olivier’s
mother, I could guess that she adored Nicola.
Time has a way of drawing itself out slowly when you’re a westerner burrowed
Shanghai, like a piece of pink taffy stretching out to a filmy transparency. A week feels like a
month and a month feels like a year. In fact, no one considers a Shanghai expatriate fully
seasoned until she has lasted an entire year in this city of twenty million human beings.
I don’t know exactly what passed between Olivier and Nicola at their “romantic dinner”
but it must have been significant. Not long after, Olivier moved out of our apartment. I
remember it was fall when he moved out because I was picking bits of leaves and twigs off my
jacket when he delivered the news.
“So, Hana,” he said, “I am going to move in with Nicola in a few weeks. It is the right
thing to do.”
I looked away from him and said nothing. As he yakked away about wedding plans, I
focused on plucking the autumn debris from my coat and scarf.
“Well do you?” he asked.
“Do I what?” I said.

10
“Do you want to take over my lease? As I’ve been explaining it should be a simple
transition. I get along with the landlord.”
“Yes. I’ll take it over,” I said. “I love this apartment.”
"And you are sure you can pay for it?”
I attempted to mimic his zombie eye roll.
I hated to see Olivier go, but I loved moving into the master bedroom. From the window
upstairs, I could look down onto Olivier’s tree. I spread my belongings throughout the flat; I
simply could not bring myself to search for another roommate.
My first Shanghai fall merged into my first Shanghai winter, one of the coldest in
recorded history. Natives and expats alike saw snow hit the city for the first time in decades. It
was during the winter I realized that the apartment I loved was cheaply constructed. There was
nothing I could do to keep warm in my home. A single heating and cooling unit stood in the
corner of the living room by the television set. The unit was about six feet tall, plastic and shiny.
It was capable of violent bursts of heat for very short periods of time.
On a frigid January evening, I trudged home through a light flurry from the teahouse
where I’d been working. My cheeks burned with winter wind as I turned the long silver key in
the lock. Fool that I was, I’d expected to encounter a blast of heat, but inside felt as raw as the
outside. The insulation in Communist-era buildings was laughable. A half-eaten peanut butter
and jelly sandwich I’d made that morning rested by the sink. I poked it with my gloved finger –
the thing had frozen to a solid. I hurried over to the ogre-sized heater and set the goal
temperature to seventy-eight degrees, a number I associated with good weather. The machine
started to grumble and sputter out heat. I gathered myself on the couch with a blanket to

11
watch the numbers tick upwards. My nose had just begun to defrost when the overworked
heater heaved an exasperated sigh and shut itself off with a vexed clunk, taking all the other
electricity with it.
For minutes, I sat in a dark puddle of self-pity. Propelled by the possibility of freezing to
death, I shed the blanket, grabbed a lighter to serve as a flashlight and stumbled down the dark
hall to the decrepit fuse box. My cracked, frozen fingers struggled against the wind to flick on
the lighter. When the flame eventually caught, I flipped every switch stuck in the off position.
Sparks flew from the fuse box as I snapped switches by the fistful. I thought I heard someone
shout upstairs, but I couldn’t be sure. The frenzy continued until I saw a warm light from the
crack underneath my front door. When that signal finally arrived, I hurried back into an
apartment brimming with lights and blaring television chatter.
I rubbed my hands together. They were chapped and scaly. The familiarity of my own
hands in this miserable setting made me long for home. A hollow feeling rose from my stomach
to my throat – I desperately wanted my family. At that moment, my flip phone buzzed. The
small device hopped excitedly on the desk from the vibrations. I looked over with hope at the
inch-long digital screen. The screen lit up and black letters flashed “Olivier.”
“Hello?”
After long pause he responded, “Ciao, Hana. It’s Olivier. How are you?”
“I’m good,” And now that Olivier had called, I felt good.
“Great.”
I heard mumbling in the background.

12
“Nicola and I want to invite you over to our new place next week for dinner. We will
make pasta. You will come?”
“Yes, of course!”
“Excellent, do you have paper? I will tell you the address. Wait. Never mind. I will email
you the address. Print it and give it your cab driver, ok? You can take a cab. I am still in French
Concession. Ciao, Hana.”
#
“Qù nǎlǐa?”
I handed the cabbie Olivier’s address.
The cabbie jolted down Huai Hai Lu, stopping for some of the red lights and ploughing
through others with abandon. I cracked the window and closed my eyes as we zigzagged
through traffic at breakneck speed. The cab took a sharp right into an alley and then another
right under a stone gate onto a small, unpaved road. We pulled to a stop at one of a many
brick townhouses on the lane. Olivier’s home was straight out of 1920s Shanghai. A stone
frame and columns opened into a narrow courtyard, where a skinny two-story townhouse
intimidated me with its looming brick walls. I paid my fare and exited.
Standing outside the door I felt utterly serene. There were enough fragrant plane trees
to mask the street smells and muffle the honks and cries from the main road. There were no
skyscrapers in sight. I banged my fist on Olivier’s grand front door. Inside, some metal object
clattered to the floor bringing with it an avalanche of French swears. The door swung open. A
white apron splattered in red sauce greeted me warmly. Olivier’s hands were covered in oil and
the thin blond waves spewed in all directions.

13
“Hana! So, happy you are here,” he said, giving me kisses on both cheeks. “I am just
having a terrible accident in the kitchen.”
“You look like you’ve been electrocuted,” I observed.
“Olivier, get in here,” I heard Nicola yell from the kitchen. He shrugged at me with the
look of a man who has become domesticated.
“Here, sit here,” he said gesturing to a large, modern looking chair. “Be comfortable.
We are almost ready with the dinner.”
From the living room, I had a glimpse into a kitchen that could barely squeeze two
people who were getting along with one another. Nicola and Olivier bickered in audible
whispers about the current condition of the pasta and how one defined “al dente.” A few
minutes later the couple emerged, smiling. Nicola carried a steaming platter of Rigatoni. Olivier
followed behind her with the meat sauce, bowls and forks for everyone. We sat on the floor
around the coffee table. Nicola tugged her skirt as low as it would go and bent her knees
demurely, arriving on the floor without revealing a thing.
“I’m so sorry we don’t have any normal chairs yet, Hana,” Nicola said. “We ordered
them from Europe about a month ago but obviously, they haven’t arrived. And, I’m also sorry
about the way I acted the last time we met,” she said.
“Please don’t worry about it,” I said to her. “I understand why you were upset. And it’s
big of you to apologize – most people don’t.”
“How about some wines for everyone?” Olivier asked.
I was about to agree when Nicola said, “Olivier, no. Not on a weeknight.”
“Water’s fine,” I said. “I can get it.”

14
“Thank you, Hana,” Olivier said. “Nicola threatens to make me healthy.”
Nicola smiled a little smile. She pulled her thick black hair away from her face and
braided it back with long, practiced fingers. Then, with silver tongs, she served us each a hill of
pasta and drizzled sauce over the noodles in an elegant spiral.
“Your house is such a classic,” I said to her.
She beamed under the bright lights of flattery. “Yes, I love it.”
“Is it a Shikumen?” I asked.
“Yes. How did you know?”
“I’ve been helping write the English portion of a book called Modern Interiors of Old
Shanghai. I’ve toured a couple of Shikumen with the author, Zoe. Apparently, the word
translates to ‘stone gate.’”
“Oh – that is totally fascinating,” said Nicola.
Olivier sucked a noodle into his mouth loudly. “Yes, fascinating,” he said.
“Olivier!” Nicola was all indignation. “I’m really interested in interior design,” Nicola
said.
I paused and looked around the barren interior.
“I know it looks empty now, but we are hoping to get our dream furniture as wedding
gifts.”
“When are you guys getting married?” I asked.
“We just set the date for February 18!” Nicola said.
“Oh soon!” I uttered automatically. Then I felt stupid.
“Yes, so very soon,” Olivier said.

15
“What about you, Hana? What else is new with you?” Olivier asked. “Are you still
enjoying my apartment?”
“Yes, I still enjoy your apartment, Olivier.” I told him I’d been freelancing at a visual arts
magazine in Pudong.
“Oh, what a pain,” Nicola sympathized. Pudong was a district of Shanghai located across
the Huangpu river, home to all the newest, tallest skyscrapers. The region offered a mixture of
cheap office space and expensive gated communities. Some expats referred to it “Pu-Jersey.”
Nicola rolled her black eyes and tugged at her skirt, which had been inching up incrementally. “I
can’t stand Pudong. I know it’s part of Shanghai but it seems so culturally bleak compared to
Puxi. Don’t you think?”
I happened to agree but Olivier snorted.
“Culture in Puxi,” he said blankly. He looked up at the ceiling in feigned contemplation
and chewed deliberately on a piece of Rigatoni. By the time he finally swallowed, the pasta
must have been liquid. “Hana, is an expert in Chinese cultures,” Olivier said with raised
eyebrows. “I need some informations on the culture here – I seem to miss it all.”
“I thought I had just given you some ‘informations’, Olivier,” I joked.
If you looked carefully in Shanghai you could find stunning cultural gems tucked away in
corners, like Shikumen houses in long quiet lanes. Yet, the way of life was so different, the
longer I spent abroad the more empathy I developed for the jaded expat, my former
roommate.
Olivier, chuckling to himself announced, “I’m going to get myself another plate of
pastas. Anyone else?”

16
Nicola and I were both finished. After coffee, chalky Chinese mooncakes and some
strained talk about the wedding, I mumbled something about having to head home.
“Wait, before you go, I have something to show you.” Nicola said. She stood up, pulled a
stray black hair from her sweater and reached out to grab my hand. She led me down a corridor
to a heavy wooden door. “This is the most special part of the house – maybe you should tell
Zoe about it. She could put it in her book.” Nicola opened the door to reveal an enormous
bathroom with a vaulted spa. Black, gleaming marble covered the entire floor and walls. Green
tiles lined the shower area.
“What are those?” I asked, pointing at the tiles.
“I think jade, but I’m not sure. The owner had it refinished a couple of years ago.”
“Really beautiful,” I said.
“Please tell Zoe about it!” she said as she led me back to the front of the house.
“Ok, I will.”
“Yes, please tell your boss about our breathtaking toilet,” Olivier called out from the
kitchen, where he was drying the dishes with a floral hand towel.
I arrived at home with a stomachache. Was it the pasta? As I tried to locate the source
of the discomfort in my gut, I visualized Olivier and Nicola’s impending wedding. And then I
knew. It was the very idea of those two spending forever together that I could not stomach.
They were completely wrong for each other. Nicola was nice, sure. And she was a good hostess.
But she was also a social climber, materialistic and a phony. Olivier, on the other hand, had a
sense of humor and laissez-faire attitude toward existence that distinguished him from most of

17
the humans I knew. His ability to abstract himself from the silliness of life was a characteristic
we shared. I thought he’d be much happier spending forever with me.
I wondered if I could get Olivier to see that that he was making a mistake.
From bed, I texted Olivier. “Hi! Dinner tonight was fun. Let’s meet again soon.”
“Yes, it was great to see you. We should not let so much time pass,” he texted. I took
this rapid response as a very good sign.
“Would you want to meet me at Cotton’s for dinner next Monday?” I texted.
A good ten minutes went by before I received a response.
“Sure.”
#
Cotton's was a restaurant in the French Concession that catered to the expat crowd.
Surrounded by eight-foot brick walls and Plane trees overhead, the space protected the urbanweary foreigner with a chilled-out villa atmosphere. It was the go-to place for anyone unused to
Chinese food and not planning to become acclimated.
Over the past few days I concluded that I had been sending Oliver all the wrong
messages. Walking around the house in my pajamas with knotty hair, wasting weekends
drooling by the television and engaging in lively debates with him had sunk me into the sibling
zone. Tonight, Olivier would make no mistake about the type of relationship I envisioned for us.
I dressed for the occasion, arrived at Cotton’s early and ordered two vodka martinis, up.
Olivier showed up at the restaurant in work clothes. I watched him scan all of Cotton’s
looking for me and then do a double take when he realized I was the woman in the black dress

18
with a plunging V-neck and a flawless blonde up-do. He hurried over to my table. I noted he
forgot to kiss me on both cheeks.
“Hana, you are so dressed up,” he said. “I did not recognize you.” He slid into the chair
across from me and nearly knocked over his glass of water in the process. “Really, I cannot get
over this change in your appearance. Are you going to a party tonight?”
I felt Olivier’s gaze rest on my collarbone and in a fit of excitement I started to fiddle
with the silver chain around my neck. “Olivier, I’m not going to a party. I got dressed up to see
you.” I paused. The next part I had rehearsed. “I am not sure how to say this so I’ll be blunt. I
think you and Nicola are totally wrong for each other.”
Olivier burst out laughing. Laughter was not on the list of reactions I had anticipated.
“What’s so funny?” I said.
“Nothing. I just appreciate your interest in my personal well-being, Hana,” he said. “Yet
another woman wants to tell me how poorly I have planned my life.” Olivier shook his head and
looked to the depths of his martini. Two green olives impaled by a plastic sword drifted inside
the glass. “And who out there is ‘right’ for me, Hana? Where shall I find my heart’s mate?”
“You mean soulmate,” I said.
“Yes, of course. Where do I find my soul’s mate?”
I gave him a long meaningful look. And then he understood. A sheen of sadness
obscured his face.
“Oh, Hana. You do not wish to be with me. I am old. You are only twenty-five with many
years ahead of you for having fun. Me, I am thirty-three. Old and finished.” He smiled. “I’m not

19
joking. All my friends are married except for me. Most of them have children. Are you ready to
have a baby, Hana?”
“Are you, Olivier?” I asked.
He shrugged. “It doesn’t matter. Nicola is thirty-two. She is ready. I cannot hang on to
my youth forever.”
“Olivier, that’s crazy,” I said. “You don’t have to get married and have a baby because
everyone you know had done it. Actually, it’s not crazy. It’s the stupidest thing I’ve ever heard.”
Olivier grimaced and tipped back the rest of his drink.
“You really don’t understand, Hana,” he said to me. “Maybe you will someday.” He
placed a 100 Renminbi note down on the table.
“Have another drink or two on me,” he said as he stood up. “And then please go find a
party to dance at in that stunning dress. Forget about ancient Olivier. He has to return home so
Nicola can yell at him.”
#
After that night at Cotton’s, I saw Olivier only once more in Shanghai. I was walking
through the French Concession on the way to meet a friend when he and Nicola passed me. The
two were riding matching bicycles, adorned with bells and baskets. The farm-style twowheelers were so outrageously out of place in Shanghai I had to laugh. But the two peddled
along the road, beaming, with sunshine glinting off their bikes. They looked like newlyweds in
love and so I hurried to turn a corner without being noticed.
“Hana!! Helllooo.”
I’d been spotted.

20
Hi Olivier, Hi Nicola.” I waved from across the street.
We are going to try the new Patisserie on Zhengshan Lu. You will join us?” Olivier yelled
over the traffic.
“I wish I could but I have to meet someone,” I said. “Have a great time and let me know
how it is!”
“Ok, no problems. Well, we will make dinner plans very soon, okay?”
“Of course,” I said, smiling.
“Ciao, Hana!”
“Ciao, Olivier! Ciao, Nicola!” I waved again and watched their bikes disappear into the
mass of people.
#
Almost nine years later I ran into Olivier in Switzerland. I hadn’t seen him since he was a
biking newlywed. I had long since moved back to the States and was vacationing in the Alps
with a boyfriend, who had insisted that I learn to ski. By the grace of God, an afternoon
snowstorm had put an end to our lessons. We stopped in the lodge to unwind and rest our cold
feet by the fireplace. My boyfriend was deep in discussion with another skier about the next
day’s forecast and I had just ordered a hot chocolate. Olivier sat at a table with six or seven
other men his age. He had propped his legs on the empty chair to his left and an arm draped
around the occupied chair to his right. The guys were all drinking red wine and talking loudly in
French. I made my way over to the table, clutching the mug of cocoa.
Olivier looked the same only older. He had given up the law and divorced Nicola. He told
me that he’d started an export business for wine and cheese. A high-end hotel in Shanghai was

21
his main customer and he returned to the city from time to time. His parents lived in a state of
constant humiliation and referred to him only as “our son, the cheese salesman” when they
dined out with friends. Then he made fun of me for drinking hot chocolate. For a second I felt
like his kid sister and a gust of nostalgia for the Shanghai days overwhelmed me. But the feeling
was short-lived and as Olivier chattered on I realized that his jovial wit had lost its twinkle. I
kept thinking, why on earth does this forty-something man care what his mother thinks about
his business ventures? I smiled politely but my mind drifted. I wondered if Olivier and I had
each altered irrevocably over the last nine years. Or, if the blistering intensity of Shanghai had
cast some sort of distorted filter over my perceptions during those twenty months. I supposed
there was really no way to know for sure.


