Frow Jubilay, King of the City of Althazar, located south of
the borders of Skrellvania and north of the Nivar Fields along
the western shores of the rich Calthumbrias, worried about the
crisis involving sea-porcupines.
These purple creatures did not concern him at first. Frow
thought they were a little annoying, and furthermore one had
stung him on the buttocks as a child. They were pests to the
seafarmers too, descending on the kingdom’s coral crops like a
swarm of underwater locusts. He initially thought it a blessing
when the Skrells expanded their hunting season for sea-porcupines
to an entire year.
But now that the sea-porcupine was endangered, King Frow
realized they were a species crucial to the balance of this
world. Already a number of Calthumbrian predators had gone
extinct. Also, without any sea-porcupines to feed on the violet
nectar of the Wyndlelilies, hardly any amounts of precious Wyndle
pollen could make it to the surface. This was something the Nivar
Fields could not thrive without.
Orsen Crom-vol, the Duke of Skrellvania, refused King Frow’s
proposal to ban sea-porcupine hunting amongst the Skrells, as he
did not want to lose popular votes in the upcoming election. This

left King Frow with a nasty decision to make: should he go to war
with the Skrells in order to save an animal he didn’t
particularly like at all, or let the sea-porcupines die out and
watch his kingdom collapse?
King Frow did not know what to do, so he decided to ask God.
In order to contact God in Calthumbria, one must travel to the
crystal shores of East Yfland. There, one must take an elevator
up to the top floor of the Third Castle on Your Right. Whose
right remains an ancient mystery, unsolved since Calthumbria was
first created. Not even the old Brine Mystics of Kelpvod know the
answer.
King Frow left the polis of Althazar once the Great Golden
Ostrich leapt over all five moons in the Cantaloupean Sky. He and
his men fought off seaslugs, bandits, dragon-gulls, and a pack of
wild womperjacks, until at last reaching the Third Castle on Your
Right.
An elevator man with the head of an elephant took King Frow
to the top floor and lead him to a room filled with rusty cogs,
cracked screens, oily sprockets, and wires sprawling all over the
place like the tentacles of an enormous, electric squid whose
mantle were glowing like a magnetic core of irradiated amethyst.
It just so happened that a shard of such crystal levitated calmly

in the center of the room. Through this ionized contraption, King
Frow would be able to speak with his Creator.
“Bip, bip, bip! Creator, is that you?” King Frow furrowed
his brow in concentration, as a series of 1’s and 0’s started
replicating themselves across the room in cryptic patterns.
“Creator, it is I, Frow Jubilay, King of Althazar, the first
Calthumbrian Lord to create peace amongst the peoples of
Calthumbria. I have come in need of your advice. The Skrells
threaten our entire world by hunting the sea-porcupines to near
extinction: if I do not act, the ecosystems will die out and all
Calthumbria will be lost. However, if I act, that would mean
going to war with the Skrells. What should be done?”
“Would you stop calling me Creator?” a nasally voice from
the dimension at the other end of the crystal node whined back at
him. “It’s Pat, bub. I don’t know how many times I have to tell
you. Pat.”
“Yes, err…Magnificent-Creator Pat,” King Frow nervously
continued, “forgive me, Omnipotence Pat, I did not mean to offend
you.” Pat’s sigh was transmitted through the connection. “But,
Pat, what should I do? Calthumbria’s fate hangs in the balance.”
There was a slurping noise of some kind, accompanied by
several munching sounds and what might have been a carbonated
belch, and then Pat said, “Listen, bub. I have some news for you,

and I’m not sure you’re going to like it…the truth is that I’m
not God. I’m a programmer. This whole world of yours,
Calthumbria, is a virtual matrix built upon my server. You’re not
really human either. You’re a holographic image based on an
algorithm that’s advanced enough to develop its own sense of
consciousness… All you are seeing and feeling is an AI
simulation…you’re not even made of real DNA! I’m telling you this
because you’re taking too much space on my hard-drive, and I need
some bytes to download the new Spacenuggets game. It just came
out. Yeah, so, sea-porcupines or no sea-porcupines, I’ll be
wiping y’all from my server. Should take me up to a week, local
time. Nothing personal.”
This was a distressing message for King Frow Jubilay to
receive, so he decided to contact the Mothership.
2.
King Frow sailed from East Yfland to the nearest
transmediportation pad, located within the crystal-chamber of a
gleaming emerald lighthouse. Once he was there, he sat down on a
patch of synthetic-grass, crossed both of his legs and closed his
eyes. After the release of his nine-hundred chakras, King Frow
was able to broadcast an encrypted message across the universalthought-database of Calthumbria’s quantum energy-field and enter

the Planes of Immaterialization. A laser beamed down on Frow’s
forehead and swallowed him up.
The next moment Frow opened his eyes, he found himself in
the midst of a celestial glass ballroom. Chandeliers carved from
sea-crystal floated here and there between magnetic pillars
inside an astral dome. Meanwhile, the floor was transparent,
allowing an astronomical view of the stars, clouds and
constellations glittering like sunken treasure below. The ceiling
itself was filled with holographic windows to all nine-hundredgalaxies in the Calthumbrian Universe.
“Oh Frowsy, what an unexpected surprise!” shrilled a female
voice from behind him. King Frow turned around and there,
hovering on a balcony, floated the royal Queen herself. She was
one of the most influential entities in all of Calthumbria, a
neutral keeper of peace between the nine-hundred autonomous
kingdoms of this world, and she basically looked like a squishy
octopus made out of bubbles and gold marmalade. Her crown, one of
the most cherished objects in all Calthumbrian existence, was a
frosty pink cupcake.
“What brings you here to the Mothership?” asked the Queen,
gliding serenely down from the balcony like some beautiful blob
of ambrosia. “Those Skrells giving you a hard time up north? Why
don’t I feed you some vitamins and you can tell me all about it.”

“No, no, it’s not that,” said King Frow, “I’ve learned of
matters far worse! I need you to summon—” It was at this point
that Frow involuntarily threw up. This was a common side effect
for him whenever his bit-molecules were vaporized and then
instantly put back together again through the wondrous means of
Transmediportation™.
“Oh dearie me!” gasped the Queen. “Here, I’m going to fetch
you tea and vitamins this very instant. I won’t hear a peep from
you till you’re feeling better.”
Once King Frow had been properly attended to, with a good
night’s sleep, a bib under his neck, and a chewy pacifier stuck
in his mouth, he walked out the next morning in his royal pajamas
and addressed the Queen once more, “Your Majesty, I am better
now—”
“You took your vitamins this morning?”
“Yes! My Queen, I am fine. What I have to share with you is
a message of grave importance…in fact it is an issue that
threatens all of Calthumbria! Please, I beg you to summon the
admins of the nine-hundred kingdoms of this realm. I beseech
you!”
“Alright, calm down,” said the Queen. “I will channel their
ports with my electric beams of quantum telepathy this very
instant... Presto!”

Within seconds, an assembly was gathered in the Mothership’s
ballroom. All of the most important figures were there: Warfle,
of the Wizardly Wardens, Marbeard, King of the Nivar Dwarves,
Pixula, late Princess of the Pomegranate Seeds (the last one
tragically drowned one morning in her own bowl of soup,) Argon
Snarlson of the Snowsnails, Quimulus Quackmire of the Meddlesome
Cleverstone Gang, Prince Xandiban of Heliotropolis, Quarbles
Empress of the Porcelain Porpoise Tribe, Shyla Goddess of the
Andai Serpents, Omashkenan, Chieftain of the Olajiwarian
Ostrichmen, Orsen Crom-vol, the pale Duke of Skrellvania, Aurelis
King of the Lithadonians, Salam of the Swiftfooted Salamanders,
Sonaya Lady of the Nigh, Hammersnout of the Ironslags, King
Hammond of Calthumbria 2.0, Quarvax of the Hordaean Divide,
Borgwaz, Bounty Hunter of the Boraborean Alps, Ludgar Captain of
the Chosen Guard, Ludfallos Hero at the Battle of Ishkabod,
Ludthug Gladiator of Boraxe, Rinko the Master-Architect of the
Royal Architects’ Guild, Ozeban, Rucashanks, the Duchess Mordana
Swanksommerauge and her radiant daughter Wendylia, Charles Le
Peef, recently knighted Champion of Althazar, Sir Janet the
Janitor… even the most hermetic of the Brine Mystics, Old Man
Rivers, was present, and myriads of advisors, ambassadors,
entities, and envoys were all gathered here as well.

“Um,” uttered King Frow. He hadn’t expected the Queen’s
summoning powers to take effect so quickly. As Frow stared out at
the multitudes of throngs in front of him, he realized he was
still wearing the fuzzy onesie he had woken up in this morning.
He checked behind him to make sure the butt-flap was not hanging
open.
“Greetings, gentle kind,” crooned the Queen in a voice sweet
as molasses. “I have summoned you all here because Frow Jubilay,
King of the Althazarians, and the first Calthumbrian to create
peace amongst the marvelous peoples of Calthumbria, has a message
of great importance that he wishes to share with us.”
“I thought I’d made myself clear!” snarled Orsen Crom-vol,
fangs protruding from the depths of his misting visor. “Seaporcupine hunting is a practice deeply integrated in the
traditions of Skrellvania. Without their meat the economy would
surely collapse. I won’t budge on this issue!”
“Why you speckled shlormonger,” growled Marbeard angrily,
“I’ll prune your bunions—”
“Actually, it’s not about sea-porcupines anymore,” said King
Frow. “You see…” And King Frow relayed, in detail, the doomsday
scenario he had received from Pat.
After a long pause, King Marbeard began laughing
hysterically, as did all the Calthumbrians. “Spacenuggets! Ho ho

ho! THAT is a rich one, you really had us going there ol’
Jubesy!”
“You should be a court jester!” squawked Quimulus Quackmire
of the Meddlesome Cleverstone Gang, as he lifted his indigo tailfeathers from his seat to reveal a pair of iridescent eggs
freshly lain from laughing.
“I’m serious!” King Frow cried out to the roaring audience,
“If we don’t find a way to escape we’ll all be deleted!”
“Put a cork in it,” grumbled Old Man Rivers, “I thought we
were here to discuss politics, not a raving madman’s jape!”
The guests began taking their leave. “My Queen, you believe
me don’t you?” begged King Frow.
“It was a very imaginative tale,” said the Queen politely,
“though it is something I would have preferred you share with me
beforehand. Oh poor Frowsy, you’re still not feeling well from
traveling! Here, I’ll go fetch you some more vitamins…”
Not a single soul believed King Frow’s tale. This caused him
to fall into a severe state of depression that lasted for months…
though in Pat’s world it might only have been nanoseconds. The
King never left his palace. In fact he never left his bedroom.
Whenever his servants tried coaxing him out, the King was
reported to shout things like “Don’t you realize? We don’t even
exist!” and “nothing matters anymore, we are crumbs on an

unwashed platter!” and occasionally he would throw potted plants
and rare shiny artifacts at them.
Without leadership, the once magnificent City of Althazar
fell into neglect, and with neglect came ruin. There was no
longer any order, and the streets were divided up between vicious
criminal gangs financed by corrupt dukes and earls.
As the sea-porcupine crisis continued getting worse, it was
not long before the Wizardly Wardens, allied with King Marbeard,
ambushed a hunting-post occupied by Skrells north of the Hordaean
Divide. Their combined forces won the battle, but then Duke Orsen
Crom-vol ordered a massive invasion on the Nivar Fields. Not only
were their farmlands scorched and salted, forcing the Nivar
dwarves to retreat underground into their Wyndlelily tunnels, but
the Skrells also captured their benevolent King Marbeard. What
they did to him was far worse than death: they shaved off his
rich, kingly thickets!
War was declared. The Calthumbrian hoplites began their
dreadful march.
3.
One morning, as King Frow was sulking beneath his bedsheets, a knock came from the door. “How many times must I order
you, just slip my medications through the keyhole,” he grumbled
bitterly.

“Arrgh, open up ye scurvy sod!” barked a voice from out in
the hallway. There was only one man who could address the king
like that and get away with it.
King Frow rubbed his eyes and walked out to greet his old
friend, Percibal the Pirate.
“Ahoy mate! Ain’t ye a sight fer sore eye, ye shore look a
mess these days.” Percibal grinned from ear to ear, displaying
his diamond fang among otherwise crooked, smelly teeth.
“Percibal! You sparkling scoundrel, give it here.” The two
friends embraced like brothers, but it was not long till King
Frow drew away from the jaunty swashbuckler.
“Are you here to try bringing me out of my madness?” asked
King Frow, “because it won’t work. Not even you could convince me
otherwise.”
“Har har har, try spendin’ a year maroon’d on an island,
drinkin’ naught but seawater an’

havin’ yer ship’s bonnie

figurehead reduced t’ a mere toothpick t’ keep ye company, then
talk t’ me about madness! Har har har…” laughed the pirate. “I’m
actually here hopin’ ye could shed some light fer me on this
whole Pat business. Ye see, as cap’n o’ The Mayfly, I’d been
commission’d by th’ late Princess Pomegranate Seed t’ shoot down
some zepp’lins owned by the Brine Mystics at East Yfland. Not too
shabby a bunch o’ geezers by me own ’pinion, but apparently Ol’

Man Rivers insult’d th’ Princess last fortnight. Said she’s not
sweet as a pomegranate at all, but rather sour as a wrinkly ol’
prune. Ye know how things arr these days, what wit’ th’ wars
goin’ on, things lyke that get blown waaaay outta proportion. So
here me is lootin’ all th’ booty I can find (an’ twerent much,
these Brine Mystics arr a bunch o’ frugal fogeys) when I runs
into Ol’ Man Rivers himself. Th’ hermit looks grave, pale as if
he’d jus’ smelt somethin’ harrrrrible. I tell him t’ hand over
wot bloody booty he’s got but th’ man jus’ shrivels up, and then
like that he begins chucklin’, nay, cacklin’ mad!
‘He was right!’ th’ ol’ curmudgeon croaks, “Pat exists, we are
only as human as we think we are!” Then before me eye th’ ol’ man
blows himself into a hurricane. Methinks me times arr up, aye,
but he doesn’t head after me vessel. Instead, he hovers over th’
Third Castle on Your Right, and strikes it t’ smithereens!
“Now fer a while I thought naught o’ it, till one day when I
wos sailin’ through th’ skies, havin’ jus’ escaped a flock o’
Cleverstone’s harrrrrpoonin’ harrrrpies, when a glimmerin’ object
catches me eye. First methought ’twere a sea-porcupine, but
lookit!” Percibal the Pirate handed King Frow the strange object.
“A chip?”

“Aye, but look closer…” As King Frow examined the green tint
of the frame, a flicker of briny beard suddenly caught the focus
of his eye. “Why, it’s Old Man Rivers!”
“A part o’ him, ’tis all that remains,” said Percibal
darkly.
“Proof at last!” exclaimed the King, “We better take this up
with the Queen immediately! Quick, to the transmediportation
pad!”
No sooner had King Frow left his palace that he came into
full perspective of the devastation that had been going on in his
absence. The stormy skies were filled with shrieking harpies
ripping apart the seams of wizardly war-zeppelins. Meanwhile,
Skrellvanian catapults could be seen launching fusillades of
volcanic fire down upon columns of Marmar machine-tanks,
Snowsnails were freezing Boraboreans in arctic slime, Andai
Serpents were wrestling with the Olajiwarian Ostrichmen, and the
City of Althazar itself was a ravaged wasteland of smoking rubble
and debris. Civilization had finally crumbled, and as King Frow
prophesized they were all like crumbs on an unwashed pan.
“Looks lyke yer transmediportation pad has grown a few weeds
on it,” grunted Percibal, “guess ‘we’ll have t’ take me zepp.”
They boarded Percibal’s zeppelin, The Mayfly, and cast off,
flying low, using the dark clouds for cover.

“Look!” exclaimed King Frow in horror. “Part of the
Spacenuggets game…it’s already been uploaded!” Sure enough, high
up amongst the stars, huge pixilated rocks could be seen
plummeting through Calthumbria’s weakened atmosphere.

“Arr, those graphics be harrrrrible,” muttered Percibal the
Pirate.

When they reached the Mothership, there was no need to pass
through the standard gateway protocol. This was because one of
the Spacenuggets had smashed a hole through the Mothership’s main
thrusters, causing her to flip sideways and crash-land into the
highest peak in all of Calthumbria: Mount Nimbus.
Galvanized with fear, King Frow rushed forward through one
of the ruptured entranceways to see if he could locate the Queen.
“My Queen!” he exclaimed, “Are you alright?”
“Yes dearie,” she mumbled weakly, “though I’ve run out of
vitamins, and I’m also dying.”
“No!” grieved King Frow.
“It seems…you were right…about the world ending,” spoke the
Queen, words ripe with serenity, “but here, you must take this…”

She gave King Frow the frosty cupcake that had always balanced on
her marmalade-mantle. “It’s, it’s not vitamins…but….”
“FROW JUBILAY!” someone howled. There stood Orsen Crom-vol,
Arch-Duke of the Skrells, and recently elected Commander-in-Chief
of the Nivarian Confederacy. “I have caught you in the act of
murdering our beloved Queen! Now I shall finish you off and claim
Althazar in the name of Old Man Rivers!”
“Arr,” growled Percibal, brandishing his cutlass, “we’ll see
about that.” Orsen Crom-vol and Percibal fought, clashing blades
in an epic duel that lasted for eons. At one point Percibal
victoriously slashed through Crom-vol’s exoskeleton armor, but
the duke avenged his own death by piercing Percibal’s ribcage
with a poisoned claw. The two rolled over on the floor, drenched
in each other’s blood. Their corpses were both crushed by a
falling piece of Spacenugget.
“No!” lamented Frow. “All my friends are dead. Everything I
have ever loved is gone, ended!” Frow trudged outside onto the
high deck of the wrecked Mothership to gaze at his former
kingdom. In his arms he carried the deflated corpse of the Queen,
now reduced to a slushy marmalade-like substance, as well as the
dear cupcake she had given to him. Looking up at the broken,
static sky, he could make out glitches where files of a destroyed
Calthumbria were slowly being crumpled up and dispensed into the

void, making room for the meaningless barrage of Spacenuggets
that would reduce this realm to a bit in the game’s lowresolution background.
“Well, what should I do now?” the King asked nobody in
particular. He was numb and exhausted. Already King Frow could
feel himself deteriorating. Soon he too would no longer exist. He
took out the Queen’s cupcake and licked off some of the frosting,
a final dessert before his bitter annihilation.
“Ow!” Something pricked his tongue. Unwrapping the rest of
the cupcake, King Frow was amazed to find that it wasn’t a
cupcake at all. It was a purple sea-porcupine, the last of its
kind. The King wept, for it was the most beautiful creature he
had ever seen. Cradling the little endangered critter in his
arms, Frow Jubilay waited for the sound of impending Spacenuggets
to come crashing down on both their heads.
Thump!
Thump, thump!
Thump, thump, thump-thump-thump-thumpthumpthump…
King Frow looked up and stared into the clouds.
“Why, Pat, why?” was all he could say.
“System error,” Frow heard a far away answer, “download
incomplete.”

Spacenuggets were not falling down on the ruins of
Calthumbria anymore. Instead, it was raining millions and
millions of sea-porcupines.


