‘You fucked my wife.’
‘I beg your pardon.’
‘You fucked my wife. I know. I’m coming for you.
You’re dead.’
The voice on the cellphone was calm but there was an
unmistakable undercurrent of boiling fury, barely
contained.
‘I think you may have the wrong_’ replied Andy,
startled and a little indignant.
‘Dead.’
The caller hung up. Even as the line disconnected,
Andy became abruptly aware that, in fact, he knew
exactly who the caller was. The blood drained out of
his face. He swallowed. He looked at the screen:
withheld number.
The infant on his lap dropped the wedge of green
apple it was inexpertly trying to cram into its mouth
and started bawling. He bounced his little girl up and
down on his knee, put the cellphone on the table and
gave her another slice from the plastic plate.
Immediately, the child was mollified.
His six-year old, Jack, stared at him across the
cluttered dining table, eating a bowl of cereal, his
expression somehow both entranced by his father and
completely vacant.
‘Who was that?’ asked Sally. ‘Is that Cawstead
calling you at breakfast-time again?’
1

She flew around the kitchen as she spoke, gathering
up the kids’ lunches and her bits and pieces for work.
‘Wrong number’ he lied.
‘Well, good. You can’t even eat your damned breakfast
without_’ She turned, forgetting the call, and bellowed
up the stairs. ‘Lloyd, get down here now. We’ve got to
go.’
‘I’m coming.’ The faint, plaintive, utterly jaded
reply of a sullen teenager.
‘Now!’ She reiterated, then snatched up her car keys
and turned back to Andy. ‘Ok, we’re out of here. Tell
Maud thanks for sitting.’
She leant in and kissed the infant on the head. She
kissed Andy too, glanced at him, frowned.
‘You okay? You look pale.’
‘Stomach,’ he pleaded. ‘Bit of a stomach ache.’
‘Well don’t go in to work if you’re ill. You’ll make
yourself worse.’
‘I’m sure I’ll be fine.’
‘Your choice.’
Little Jack was whisked out of the dining chair by
his arm, his spoon clattering in the not quite empty
bowl.
‘Bye, daddy’ he managed, as as they swept out of the
house.
‘See you later, Jacky,’ he called. ‘Have a good day
at school.’
Lloyd thundered down the stairs and exited the house
without a word. His mother was already starting the
car.

2

Andy was left alone in the kitchen, now silent but
for the baby gnawing her apple wedge.
He had made up the stomach ache but he realised that
he did feel nauseous. The guy on the phone sounded
nasty. Sounded dangerous. It had to be Klara’s husband.
Andy had suspected she was married, despite the absence
of a wedding band, but it had been convenient to
disregard that possibility, if only to partially salve
his own bad conscience. This wasn’t good. What should
he do? He looked at the kitchen clock. 8.13am. He
needed to get to work.
As Andy rose from the table, lifting the baby from
his lap, and caught a warm whiff of faeces. He gave her
a tentative sniff. His nose wrinkled.
‘Oh, not now, Kirsty.’
He would have to change her.
‘Couldn't you have waited until you got to Maud’s?’

Four lanes of traffic crawled along under a
glowering, breeze block sky. It was going to rain. And
he was going to be late.
‘Dammit!’ He hit the steering wheel with his palms
and startled the baby in her child seat.
’Sorry, honey.’ He gave her tummy a little rub and
was rewarded with a big, wet, toothless grin. What a
beautiful thing, that smile, and what a terrible,
terrible father.
He turned the words over in his mind again. You
fucked my wife. That withering accusation. And so it
was back, the oppressive burden of self-disgust he

3

thought he had banished.
I’m coming for you. That voice, so full of resolve,
all the more disturbing for its forced restraint.
You’re dead.
Andy’s stomach rolled. It wasn't so much the threat
of violence; it was his family. Sally would find out
what he had done if this guy came to the house blurting
out his accusations. The kids. Christ! He and Sally had
only just gotten over that other business from last
year. He’d used up his last chance already.
How the hell had Klara’s husband found out anyway? He
would need to talk to her when he got to work.
Straighten things.
Then it dawned on him. Work. The guy would come to
the office to claim his pound of flesh. Where else?
That's the one place he would know where to find Andy.
The scene of his and Klara’s sex-crime. At once, he had
a humiliating premonition of the guy standing sentinel
in the car park outside the office at 5pm, like some
school bully waiting for his mark. A circle of excited
kids chanting. Teachers in the building, oblivious or
disinterested. He recalled it all from his school days,
and distant though they were, he felt the vertiginous
rush of adrenaline through his limbs.
How long since he had a fistfight with anyone? Twenty
years? Nearly that. He had been eighteen and hoping to
impress the lovely Ann-Marie Shaw with his gallantry by
challenging some rude, drunken rugby player at a party.
But in the jostle that followed it was his nose that
got broken. Embarrassing.

4

He and Ann-Marie had still slept together after the
fight - at least there was that. But he was the wounded
soldier instead of the triumphant hero. All his life,
the girls had loved Andy. In that respect, he was
blessed. But like Michael Jackson, he was a lover not a
fighter and when it came to brute force he was far from
gifted.
The clock showed 8.38am. There was the big meeting
this morning too. Shit. Cawstead would flay him if he
missed the start. That was on top of any trouble that
Klara’s vengeful husband might add to matters. How
could he possibly conceal this from the company? He
might lose his job. They would not take kindly to
reports of sexual impropriety in the workplace.
The traffic was not getting any better. Sitting high
in his SUV he could see up ahead, over the tops of the
cars, road works. New ones. And an extra set of
temporary traffic lights.
‘Come on! Come on!’ He went to smack the steering
wheel again but then remembered the baby. He looked at
her - he’d put his family at risk. Stupid, stupid,
stupid_
The only solution was to meet the trouble head on. He
needed to contain this. He would speak to Klara, get
her home address and then go and confront the offended
cuckold. Reason with the guy. God’s sake, strictly
speaking he didn't know that Klara was married. She
never told him that she had a husband. He could, in
reasonably good conscience, plead ignorance. But then
wouldn’t that just deflect all the blame onto Klara?

5

Yes, but it was her betrayal, not his. He owed her
husband no loyalty. This was cowardly and shameless
reasoning and he knew it.
What about if he paid the guy? Compensation? Klara
wasn’t in a well-paid job, just a temporary office
assistant. Everything about her: the way she spoke, her
clothes, the slightly excessive amount of make-up she
wore - it didn’t speak of an affluent household. Again,
he felt a surge of self-loathing, but he couldn’t deny
that money might help smooth things over. Yes, give the
husband a few hundred by way of reparations. But might
this offer of money offend him further? This was his
wife we were talking about after all. Maybe just take
the cash and see what the lie of the land is. Make an
assessment when he was there. He would get the address
and go over during his lunch-break. Might have to take
a beating. He winced. Well, if that’s what it took. If
he was too messed up, he would just say he had been
mugged and take the rest of the afternoon off.

He stumbled into work, sweaty and stressed, at
9.42am. He was expected to present his business case to
the board at ten and he hadn't even been through the
notes. This looming ordeal had occupied his mind on his
fraught drive to the office from Maud’s and almost
pushed the issue of Klara’s husband out of pole
position in the anxiety grand prix. He dashed through
the lobby carrying his jacket and laptop bag, a glaze
of perspiration prickling his back. The clouds hadn't
broken yet and the atmosphere outside was oppressively

6

stuffy. He was glad of the building's air conditioning.
He plunged into the familiar bustle of the morning.
Folks ferrying aromatic cafetieres around, sitting
frowning at VDUs or tending to droning photocopiers. He
said a few coy good mornings and thought he detected
one or two unusual glances thrown his way but just put
this down to self-consciousness. It was always
embarrassing being late into the office when you are
management.
He made his way to his PA’s desk. She was a dour,
schoolmarmish divorcee who clearly felt that servicing
this new junior manager was well beneath her dignity.
He forced a smile.
‘Hey, Angela. Whew! Don't ask.’
Her demeanour seemed even more disapproving than
usual.
‘There's been some bother, Andrew.’
His guts twitched but he managed to keep his polite
smile pasted on. ‘Oh?’
‘There was a man here looking for you earlier.’
The fact that Angela, usually so formal, said man
instead of gentleman told him straight away that, as
far she was concerned, the visitor was unsavoury and
unwelcome.
‘A man? Who?’
‘He didn’t give a name. I don't think it was a
business matter actually. Something personal I would
say. When I told him you hadn’t arrived for work yet he
wanted me to give him your home address.’
He felt the earlier nausea return.

7

‘You didn’t_?’
‘Of course not. It is our policy never to give out
employees’ personal details without consent.’
‘Thank you, Angela.’
‘I have to say, I did not like the look of him at
all. He became very insistent. Aggressive even. I had
to threaten to call the police in the end to get him
off the premises.’
‘How long ago was this?’
‘Only ten minutes or so.’
A drop of cool sweat raced down his spine.
‘What did he look like?’
‘He was a big man, dark hair. Very unpleasant in my
view. Is this person someone you know?’
‘No, no. I don't think so. I’d better_ uhm_’
He couldn’t think of how to end the sentence and so
he just turned and headed down to find Klara in
business support.
‘Andrew_’ Angela called impatiently after him. He
barely heard her.
As he walked through the open plan office, A thin man
sprang from an adjacent doorway, like a spider
ambushing its prey.
‘Andy, where in Christ’s name have you been?’
The sour odour of black coffee was pungent on his
breath. James Cawstead: twitchy, intense, always
getting too close.
‘Oh, I’m sorry, James. I had a bit of a bad morning.
Got lumbered with the baby and then there were
roadworks.’

8

‘We were supposed to have a damned pre-meet at ninethirty. Hendrick and I were waiting for you like a pair
of twats. I had to make fucking conversation with him
for quarter of an hour. It was Hell.’
‘Sorry, James.’
Cawstead grabbed his shoulder, lowered his voice.
‘Look, I put a word in for you, Andy. Got you on the
next rung. You've yet to prove my confidence wellfounded. You know how anxious Hendrick is about this
bloody presentation and neither he nor I have even seen
the final draft yet. Please, please tell me you are all
set for ten?’
Andy looked at the wall clock. 9.48am.
‘Yeah. Yes, all set’ he lied.
‘Good. Don’t fuck it up, Andy. Hendrick is already
pissed-off.’
‘I just gotta go use the bathroom.’
‘Alright. See you up there. Don’t be late.’
Cawstead scuttled off to get ready for the meeting.
Andy knew it was crazy but he had to talk to Klara
before the presentation. He wouldn’t be able to focus
otherwise. He had ten minutes.

He marched briskly to the business support section at
the other side of the building. As he walked he again
felt eyes on him. Something was up, for sure. Could it
be people knew? Please no.
He arrived at Klara’s desk. Even though she was just
a temp, she has made the space her own with colourful
9

stationery, a hand-thrown coffee mug and a miniature
aloe in a plastic pot. No photo of husband he noted for
the first time. Klara wasn’t there either. Her computer
was switched off.
'Klara's not here today.'
It was the woman occupying the desk next to Klara’s.
She was heavy-set, big pink arms, a mass of orangebrown curls and huge, round, unflattering glasses. Andy
thought her name might be Jan.
‘Oh, what time is she due in?’
Jan looked around the office as if considering what
to do. Andy now definitely sensed that other staff in
the vicinity were discreetly listening-in to the
exchange. A feeling of conspicuousness washed over him,
making him shrink involuntarily.
Her mind apparently made up, Jan rose from her desk
and gestured for him to follow her. She led him to a
small meeting room. Once inside that private space, she
sighed. He felt extraordinarily tense.
'Klara’s not well’ she began.
‘Not well?’
‘I'm don't really know how else I can say this, Andy,
but Klara is in hospital. She's in a serious
condition.’
The ground lurched beneath him.
‘What?’
‘She's in a coma.'
'Oh my god.'
'And I don’t want to embarrass you, Andy, but I know
what happened between you two and you probably need to

10

understand that lots of people here know. Soon
everybody will. You know how people are.’
He was too stunned to even try to feign ignorance.
‘What happened?’
Tears welled and sparkled at the corners of Jan’s
eyes and he saw now that the lids were already raw from
weeping.
‘Her husband has beaten her very badly.’ She choked
on the sentence.
‘Jesus.’
'She’s in a critical condition, Andy. She might_’ The
sentence was left unfinished.
He stared out of the window at the stolid greyness.
This couldn't be happening. His world was about to
implode, and Klara; lovely, bright, sexy Klara - she
was on life support. His heart was galloping. He was
going to be sick. But he knew he had to act.
‘This is just awful. Please. Do you have her home
address?’
‘What for?’
‘I need to talk to him. The husband, I mean.’
‘Go to the police. They are looking for him. He might
be charged with attempted murder.’
‘I think if I can talk to him, it might help.’
‘No. I don’t think that’s a good idea. He won’t be
there anyway, the police will have searched.’
‘Then there's no reason not to give me the address. I
promise you if I can’t sort things out, get him to give
himself up, I will go to the police.’ He lied.
She looked doubtful, sniffed, pulled a tissue from

11

her sleeve and dabbed her eyes.
‘Okay, Andy. But at five o’clock I am calling them
and telling them about you and Klara.’

As he pulled out of the car park a police car pulled
in. The officers inside, faces pale and blank, didn't
pay him any mind.
Of course the idea that he would try and convince
Klara's husband to turn himself in was laughable. This
was pure damage limitation now. Screw the meeting.
Screw the presentation. Screw Cawstead and Hendrick.
Clearly he was going to lose his job, no question, but
was there any way he could avoid this mess getting back
to his home, his family, to Sally?
And what about poor Klara? He was trembling. A
powerful, irrational urge to just up and drive as far
away as possible grasped him. Run away, hide, as he had
as a child. That would never do though. Not now.
Perhaps it was the recollection of these childhood
feelings - he found himself driving not to the address
Jan had given him but in a different direction, a
familiar route.
The care home was clean but threadbare. It smelled of
fried onions and bleach. No residents around, just the
sound of a vacuum cleaner deep in the building
somewhere. He signed in at the front desk and a boredlooking receptionist told him where he could find
Patrick.
As he entered the TV room, his father looked up from

12

the daytime chat show he was barely watching. His was a
face ravaged by hard living, but beneath the wear, the
broken veins, one could still discern the vestiges of a
strikingly handsome man. That's where Andy had gotten
his good looks. Rounded and softened by his mother's
girl-next-door prettiness.
‘What, is it Sunday already?’ His father said drily.
‘Dad, can we talk?’
The old boy caught the grave note and gestured for
Andy to sit.
'Don't worry about him.' He pointed at a shrunken old
man sleeping in an armchair, the only other occupant of
the TV room. 'Even if he was awake, he's as deaf as a
tree.'
‘I've really fucked up, dad.’
‘Ah-ha, don't tell me. A woman?’
Andy stared, at a loss, then dropped his face into
his hands, massaging his eye-sockets.
‘Go on then. What happened?’
‘A girl at work. Just once. She's married.’
‘And Sally’s found out?’
‘No. At least not yet, but the husband has.’
‘I see, and the slighted gentleman demands his
satisfaction.’ A nod of recognition.
‘More than that. He says he's going to kill me.’
‘Pff_ they always say that.’
‘He's beaten her half to death, dad. She's in a
coma.’
His father's flippancy was instantly dispelled. He
was caught for a moment, not knowing what to say.

13

Quickly, he recovered.
‘Right. Well that's a bit more serious then.’ He left
the room and came back with a half-full bottle of J&B
plus two mismatched glasses. He poured.
‘Have a drink.’
‘I'm driving.’
‘Have it anyway.’
Andy drank. The burn was harsh, comforting. ‘The
husband called me’ he gasped through the fumes.
‘He's got your number?’
‘It was in her phone.’
'Does he know where you live?'
'No. I don't think so.'
‘Have the police come to you?’
‘No.’
‘Well, they may yet. You might want to think about
going to see them first. Stop them rolling up at your
office or, worse, at home. God forbid! I don't imagine
Sally will give you another chance after the last
time.'
'The police are at the office now.'
'Fuck. How could you be so careless, Andy? You've
only just patched things up with Sall.’
'I don't know. I don't know.'
'Fucking disaster.’ Patrick shook his head, then gave
a thin smile. ’You sure are a chip off the old block,
Andrew.' A dry little chuckle.
‘How can you laugh, Patrick? A woman could die.
Everything I have could be lost. Sally, the kids, my
job. Everything. For what?’

14

‘Well, the way I see it, you've got two choices only.
Either you go home, come clean with Sally, throw
yourself on her mercy - good luck with that - and then
call the police. Or_’
Andy looked at him expectantly, hoping for something,
desperate for something.
‘Or?’
‘Or you find this guy before he finds you and give
him such a beating that he never dares come near you or
your family again. Now, as a man your age, I'm damn
sure what I would do.'
'That's not a solution.'
'Not for you, I guess.’ He shrugged. He drank. He
poured. ‘Andy, its tougher being a guy than we get
credit for. You’ll have to make Sally understand. It’s
natural for a man to want other women. Programmed-in.
Millions of years of evolution. Women and men have
their own survival strategies. Women tend to put all
their eggs in one basket, men tend to drop a egg in as
many baskets as possible. Irrefutable facts. A man
shouldn’t be damned for being what he is.’
Andy flushed. ‘And how is that helping?'
'Just saying.’ He emptied his glass.
'I don't buy your bullshit evolutionary theories,
Patrick. This is just your post-hoc rationalisation for
being such a fucking shit to all the women in your
life. If you’d been able to keep your fucking dick in
your trousers, maybe_’ He hesitated.
‘Go on, boy. Say it! Your mother would still be
alive, right? That's what you want to say.’

15

‘I'm not like you, Patrick. I don't want to play
around. I love Sally. I want my family. Nothing is as
important to me as that. Nothing!’
There was a moment of silence before his father
spoke.
‘But you still fucked that coma-girl, didn't you?’

He drove to the house where Klara and her husband had
lived. It had been a terrible idea, going to the
retirement home. What possible advice could his father
offer him? Maybe he'd gone just to remind himself. To
stare in that bleak mirror. To face down the destiny he
had to escape.
There were so many missed calls and voicemail
messages on his phone; from Cawstead, from the office,
and from a withheld number - Klara’s husband? The
police? He didn't care to listen to the messages.
Klara's neighbourhood was poor but well kept. He
approached her house and found that the door had been
broken open. There was a piece of paper lying on the
threshold with fragments of the lock. It was a carbon
copy of a warrant to search. The police had left the
house unsecured. They would never do that in a more
affluent neighbourhood. Perhaps a locksmith would be
coming? He’d better be quick.
There was no sign of life inside. The gloomy day made
the interior of the house like a cave. In the hall was
a set of golf clubs. Golf, the uninspired go-to for
social climbers. He grabbed one. In case. He thought of
Klara’s husband here, nursing his grudge in this

16

darkness, plotting his vengeance. But no, he was
unlikely to come back. The police were looking for him,
while he was busy trying to track down Andy.
He wandered around the property. It was an ordinary
home in every way: flatpack furniture, massmanufactured appliances, cheap ornaments, mementoes.
There was a framed photograph of Klara and a tall man
on their wedding day, bride and groom. Her, hunched
slightly, giggling, her long fair hair taking flight in
the breeze. Him, suited, lean, not unattractive, but as
unremarkable a man as one could possibly imagine. What
had happened to them?
He tried to imagine Klara getting ready for work here
each day. Rushing around. The smell of toast and
coffee. The noise of a radio. Arguments. Boredom.
His phone rang. On the screen: number withheld. He
answered but said nothing. Silence on the line.
Then, ‘You fucked my wife.’
‘You.’ Unexpected rage engulfed him. ‘Yeah, yeah, I
fucked Klara’ he yelled into the tiny device, his free
arm flailing the golf club around. ‘And you know what,
I made her come. She came like Niagara Falls. And she
loved it. Said it was way better than anything she got
from you. She told me your dick is tiny, like a peanut,
but you couldn't get it up anyway. And that you were
fucking boring!’
The stunned silence on the end of the line broke.
‘I’ve got a gun, cocksucker. I'm going to shoot you
dead. Do you hear me?’
‘No, no, don't shoot me, you fucking pussy. Use your

17

fists like you do with women. You can do it. I’m weak.
I’m weak and I'm a liar and I'm a coward too, but you
know what? I'm still ten times the man you are, you
fucking pig.’
‘I’m going to make you suffer, you hear. First I'm
going to take your knees off then I’m_’
Andy hung up. The phone rang again. He threw it hard
and it burst against the kitchen wall.

He pulled up in front of his own house. It was
2.31pm. No police, but really he was now only concerned
about Klara’s husband finding his way here. No sign of
him either. The neighbourhood was quiet. The house
looked silent. Its worn, benign facade, so familiar,
already feeling like a fond remembrance from another
lifetime.
The sky was achingly pregnant with rain and it cast a
sullen, greenish tinge over the world. Through this
taut murkiness he caught a movement at the side of the
house. Amid the stacked recycling bins and behind the
polythene bags of refuse put out by Sally that very
morning, a dark shape. A man, hunched over, busy with
something on the ground. Andy leaned forward, feeling a
chill leach into his extremities. He saw the shape
again briefly, squinted, frowned. He could swear the
intruder was wearing a coarse fur coat.
He got out of the car, picking up the golf club he
had taken from Klara’s house. The air was close, damp,
almost greasy. He approached the house silently and
crept down towards the bins. As he skirted them he saw

18

that the intruder was gone. The ground level basement
window was open and off its latch. A sign of someone
breaking into the house? No. It was an awning window,
opening outward, and a corner of the mustard-yellow
curtain had been dragged outside and was now lying in
the grime on the ground. This suggested someone
climbing out of the basement, not into it.
A scratching noise made him start. He raised the club
defensively. There was shuffling around the back of
house. He moved forward as quietly as he could, not
wanting to lose the advantage of surprise. Gingerly, he
rounded the corner to the backyard. It was in the usual
disarray - a repository for junk, stuff that they had
neglected to put away in the garage and products from
unfinished family projects. The kids’ bikes abandoned
on the patio; some partially assembled garden furniture
he had been meaning to finish off; against the back
wall a big, dirty gas-barbecue that needed cleaning and
covering up.
A pulse of electric fear spiked through his core. At
the base of the barbecue there was a great hulking
shape quivering feverishly. A wet, bristling, black
hump with a thick, fleshy, rope-like tail snaking
across the concrete. It was the hindquarters of the
largest rat he had ever seen. Bigger than the average
dog - a hundred pounds at least. Frantically, it gnawed
and scratched, disturbing the barbecue, making the
metal feet scrape on the concrete. He gasped and the
rat snapped its head around, fixing him with its
glistening, black-glass eyes. Its jaws were working at

19

some fragments, the rotten remnants of meat that had
fallen down the back of the grill and unknowingly been
left to putrefy. Its whiskers, were beaded with
moisture, spreading a foot and more out from either
side of its shivering snout. It sniffed at him, let out
a screech - a noise like rending metal that made him
cower. Disregarding him, the rat turned and continued
its forage beneath the barbecue.
Andy was stupefied with revulsion. Now that the
rancid meat had been disturbed, he could smell it, as
well as the cloying sewer-stench emanating from the
rat’s hot body. Its scaly tail was draped, twitching,
over little Jack’s bicycle, with its training wheels
and its peeling rocket-ship transfers.
Again an irrepressible fury ignited within Andy at
the sight of this filthy interloper in amongst his
family’s possessions. He felt his teeth grind. Raising
the club, he advanced on the monster. The club sliced
the air and smacked the back of the rat with a noise
like a machete cleaving a pumpkin. There was a
horrendous, jarring shriek from the furious beast as it
span and leapt at him. Brown incisors tore into the
flesh just beneath his knee and he felt the snap of a
tendon as it was sliced through. He bellowed in agony
as those huge rodent teeth scored across his bones. The
damaged leg buckled and he just avoided falling by
throwing his weight onto the other. He pounded the back
of the rat again with the club, sending shocks of pain
through his knee, which the rat held fast. With the
third blow, squealing like hellfire, it let go and

20

snatched his free hand in its jaws. He felt the fleshy
base of his thumb tear open and teeth cleave through
his ring finger and little finger, like secateurs
though green twigs. He was rocked by dizzying pain
again - nearly fell again. Horror, as he saw those
little pale digits tumble to the ground. But the rage
that possessed him gave him abnormal strength and he
brought the club down again and again with such savage
impact that the rat was forced to let go and was left
squirming and shrieking on the ground, its tail
flailing repulsively, its back broken. He struck it
again twice more, if only to stop the appalling noise
of its death throes. Now silenced, it lay jerking and
steaming among the children’s bikes.
Overcome by the burden of his injuries, clutching his
ruined hand, he limped slowly to the rear wall of the
house. Thick, dark blood, was oozing and congealing. He
collapsed against the brickwork and slid down until he
was seated on the cold concrete. He tried to catch his
breath. His mind whirled. He felt tremendous exhaustion
and closed his eyes. The darkness welcomed him.
A cold spot of moisture landed on his face and made
him wince as he drifted out of consciousness. Then a
few more. Then at last, finally, the rain came down.
END.

21


