Ava descended into the forest, landing gently. A few silver feathers fell from her grand
wings. She gathered some snow into a snowball and threw it at a tree. I love the snow, she
thought, watching the snowball explode into a million tiny droplets of ice crystals. She
entertained the idea of falling back onto the frozen ground, stretching out her silver wings, and
making a snow angel, but she decided against it and instead walked through the forest to Franz.
Mortar fire kicked dirt and snow up all around her. A bloody mist had collected on top of
the white blanket that covered the forest. Ava heard orders from both sides as she walked –
“Flank right!” “Feuern Sie die Panzerschrecke!” “Hold the line!” – and watched as bullets flew
all around her and lodged themselves in the bodies of their targets. Ava was amused when the
bright orange bullets lit her up as they phased through various parts of her body. She watched in
awe as one soldier – perhaps an officer, judging by his uniform – spotted a grenade and threw
himself on top of it, saving the men around him.
After taking in enough of the battlefield and its combatants, Ava walked briskly to Franz.
She admired the way his comrades were trying to save him but she knew his time was coming to
an end. Her eyes went to the medic’s hands that were tying bandages around what remained of
Franz’s right leg to try to staunch the bleeding, for his body was pumping blood into the snow.
Another medic was crouched, confused about what to do next – Franz had several holes in his
chest and stomach.
“Er ist ein hoffnungsloser Fall,” the confused medic said before a shot pierced his
helmet and imploded all the lobes of his brain. “Scheiße!” his fellow medic said.

Ava was grateful none of the blood from the battlefield would stain her gown or wings.
She went to Franz’s side, occupying the space that the medic had moments before.
Franz rolled his head towards her and formed a smile. “You’re beautiful.”
Ava smiled and pulled her silver hair back behind her ears. “Thank you.”
“You speak Deutsch?”
“Dear, I speak everything.”
“Who are you?” They always asked this, understandably.
“I’m your release.”
“What?”
“Your release from life, from suffering,” she said.
“You are an angel?”
“You could say that.”
“But I’m not ready to die.” The soldier used whatever strength he had left to raise his
head and look at what remained of his body – his one and a half legs, his torso full of lead. “No,
no, no, no. Not yet.” He began to weep.
Ava let him cry. She didn’t want to rush his last moments on Earth. She ran her fingers
along his soft, cold cheek, wiping away tears. His face was that of a boy’s. Traces of blonde
could be found in his hair but the majority of it was darkened by dirt or plastered to his scalp by
blood.
Ava had done this before during this war. Wiped tears away, stroked hair, held hands,
released young men. Ava was starting to become numb to the horrors around her. The first
soldier Ava released during this war held his intestines from falling out of his abdomen. “You
look like my sister,” he said before being taken away.

3
The medic that was working on Franz’s leg gave up on him and went to another soldier
not too far away, the one that fell on the grenade. He was still barely breathing, although a piece
of shrapnel was lodged in his windpipe. Ava saw another angel descend to the battlefield and
hover over him. The two angels looked at each other and exchanged frowns. “Too bad,” Ava said
under her breath before turning her attention back to Franz. He grew colder and his breathing
slowed. Snow fell on his face and into his wounds. His complexion was turning purple.
“I never wanted to fight in this war,” he said. “I don’t believe in what we’re fighting for.”
“I know, I know,” The angel said as she stroked his hair. “Now, you can do whatever you
want. You don’t have to fight any longer. But we have to leave, all right? You don’t want to
suffer any more, do you?” She took his hand.
“But my mother, she needs me to return! I can’t die! Please! Please, Gott, please,” Franz
said, weeping.
“I’ll take you to her, I promise,” Ava said.
“Is she waiting for me on the other side? Is she already there?”
“Yes, she is. She told me she missed you and your brother too much and couldn’t go on
any longer.” Ava grasped his hand tightly and dried his tears.
“Did Friedrich already die?”
“Yes, he did.”
“Did you release my brother too?”
“No, only your mother and now you.”
“Will I be able to be with them?”
“Yes, you will.”
“What about my father? Is he still fighting?”

4
“Yes, he is. Your father is a very good Oberleutnant.”
Franz’s tears rolled into the dried blood on his ear. “He forced us into this war. I went –”
Franz coughed, spitting blood into the snow. “I went to university to write and Friedrich was a
painter.”
“I know. But you can still have a peaceful life. Friedrich has been painting for some time
now. Don’t you want to see your family?”
“I do. Is it time?”
“Yes, it is time.”
Franz drew air in and exhaled a cold breath. He again looked at his poor excuse of a body
and said, “I’m ready.”
Ava outstretched her beautiful wide wings and lifted Franz’s soul from the battlefield. His
body went cold and he stopped blinking.
They flew upwards slowly enough so that Franz could watch the war unfold below him.
So many of his friends – including his brother – had perished during the fighting. He had
watched several of them fall right in front of him.
As they flew upwards, Franz noticed all of the other angels consoling hundreds, maybe
thousands, of his comrades and enemies and lifting their souls up. A single feather fell from his
angel and Franz let it land in his hand. Its soft silver barbs glistened in the sunlight. Franz
remembered that the angel never spoke of where she was taking him. “Are we going to heaven?”
he asked.
“If that’s what you want to call it, then yes, we are going to heaven,” Ava said. They
ascended together into the white, snow-filled sky.
*

*

*

5
While he was walking home from university, Ava followed Franz from high above, out of
sight. It had taken some time, but Franz was well-adjusted and happy. Ava smiled at a job well
done and ascended higher into the sky, leaving Franz to be with his family.
Walking on a dirt road, Franz flipped through his notebook and reviewed the story he was
currently working on; a sentimental tale about the warmth of family. He considered himself a
writer. A single flattened silver feather fell out of the notebook, which Franz was quick to pick up
and place inside again.
As Franz grew closer to his home, surrounded by pine trees, he saw his brother on the
other side of the road. His easel stood in front of him; a radio sat on the stool behind him. Their
shepherd Senta was curled on top of his feet in front of the easel.
“Friedrich!” Franz yelled. Once he was close enough he saw that Friedrich was painting
pine trees, a marvelous forest of various shades of green and brown. Red, purple, and yellow
made the sky glow. “Beautiful painting.”
“Danke. I’m just testing out these new colors. I really like the way the red and purple
stand out, ja?” Friedrich took a step back and admired his work.
Franz bent down to pet their dog. “Hey girl, how are you?” She licked his hand. The
radio broadcast caught Franz’s attention. The announcer was giving a report on how the Allied
troops were advancing further into Deutschland. “Is it almost over?” he said to Friedrich.
“If what they say is true, yes.”
“Good. Those poor people on both sides can stop dying for nothing.”
“Better them than us, no?” Friedrich said.
“Yes, I suppose so.”

6
Friedrich went back to working on his painting and Franz continued to pet Senta. The
door to their house creaked open, drawing the boys’ attention. “Franz, Friedrich, meine
Lieblinge! Come eat! Das Bauernbrot is done baking,” their mother said.
“Put down the paintbrush, Friedrich, and come on!” Franz said. The brothers crossed the
road and entered their home. The radio broadcast continued, detailing the invasion of
Deutschland.


