Three dimensional. When he stood before Jackie’s mirror, George
Huffman felt his roundedness. In youth, his reflection had stood in the
glass in simpering angles, but somehow punchless. Now, in the morning
light, his thick legs and middle bunched into a pointing belly that
remained despite the workouts and cutting back on ginger snaps. His
chest offered a bouquet of grey hair.
He walked about Jackie’s apartment on cool feet. Her taste was
plain, but everything was clean and neat. His blue boxer shorts were
good quality, but frayed at the waistband.
It was the third time he’d come to Jackie’s apartment while she
was out. The building had a refurbished fitness room with elliptical
machines with televisions, and rather than go home to shower he did it
here. He liked to work at the Starbucks near the church, and sometimes
Jackie would lunch with him there. She always had Starbucks gift
cards—Lord knows where she got them—and insisted on using them for
their lunches.
He pipped a Nutribar from the pantry, pulled on his slacks and
shirt, and went onto the front balcony overlooking the parking lot. The
balcony was the type you see in old motels, a long concrete slab with an
iron railing and access to all the apartments on the floor. There were five
apartments, and then a steep concrete stairwell that wound two flights


down to the parking lot.
At the other end of the balcony, away from the stairwell, the
icemaker turned on with a thundering noise. It was branded ‘Ice-oMatic,’ and it seemed anachronous, with a closet to itself and a
considerable motor.
Jackie’s neighbor, a thirty-something blonde woman, came out of
her apartment in the midst of lighting a cigarette. She looked
embarrassed to be caught smoking. George greeted her, though he could
not remember her name. The widow. With two adorable Asian girls.
She’d moved in a few months before.
She smiled at his greeting and they settled into looking out over the
balcony, out to the highway with its steady traffic heading east into the
city. The sun sat high above the road.
“Amazing,” George said. “The traffic this late in the morning.” The
widow smiled.
“Are you heading into it?”
“No, just going to work close to here.”
He sensed he gave the impression that he had an office nearby, but
decided not to correct her.
“You have two girls?”
“Yes—one’s out at her friends’ party and the other one is napping.”
“She sounded upset about the party.” George had heard her through the
wall, screaming about not being invited — ‘I wanna go.’ Over and over.

Icemaker

“Tough to be the younger one. Do you think any of the drivers notice
us?”
“Some, probably. We’re a couple of blue dots.”
There was an identical building not far from where his house with
Bethany had been. It used to be one of their jokes—the sad sap motel for
divorced dads. He used to say, “that’s where I’ll go when you kick me
out.” For years he peered at it every time he passed in his car, to see if
anyone was visible. This building had been converted a number of years
ago. The façade was weathered around the shapes of the letters and logo
of the old extended-stay motel.
It was funny how these things happened. The next time George
worked out at Jackie’s apartment, the scene was repeated almost exactly.
While George was showering, he heard the little girl screaming over and
over, “don’t wanna nap. No! No!” She enunciated her consonants with
fervor. Once he was dressed, he went out onto the balcony and found the
widow there, smoking. George and the widow smiled at the familiarity
of meeting at this time and place again. They lingered and George, who
normally only smoked his cigar on the back patio of his apartment a few
miles west, lit his and puffed on it in solidarity. It was quite a nice cigar,
one of the luxuries he held on to.
“Did she fall asleep this time?”
“I think so — I’m listening for her.” She nodded back at her door, which
she’d left partly open.

Icemaker

Coincidentally, at that moment the younger one—four?—came out of
the widow’s apartment and pulled the door to behind her. George
flashed a smile and she clung shyly to her mother’s leg.
“Well, Miss Rosie,” she said. “Can you greet Mr. George?” The girl said
nothing. “Did you sleep at all, peanut?” The girl shook her head.
“OK. Well, honey,” the widow said. “Guess what? Mommy doesn’t
have her key. Let’s walk over to the office and see if the man with the
keys is around.”
George realized he could invite the widow to call the office from
Jackie’s apartment, and as he was about to offer an idea came to him.
“Wait just a moment.”
Flush with mischief, he went through Jackie’s apartment to the
back balcony, where he sometimes left his gym clothes to dry. He
carefully put his leg over the railing and around the divider onto the
widow’s back balcony. With a neat pivot, and only just jostling one of
the widow’s heavy pots, he was onto her balcony, through the dark and
lavender scent of the widow’s apartment, and opening her door to let her
and the child in.
“Ta da!” He said.
The girl went wide-eyed and clapped her hands to her mouth.
George did not register the widow’s look, for the girl was suddenly
jumping up and down in front of him, shouting Again! Again! Again!”
“I think once is enough,” the widow said.

Icemaker

George had always been good with kids. “I’m George,” he said.
“What’s your name?”
The girl resumed her shy clinging to her mother’s leg. “Ok, but I’m
going to figure it out!” George said. The girl looked terrified and
delighted.
“Well, we’d better see about a snack for this one,” the widow said.
“Thank you. Can I offer you anything?”
George held up his Nutribar. “I’m all set. Glad to be of help.”
At Starbucks he attacked the Grommell project energetically,
floating on the feeling of his good deed, and the bit of athleticism and
danger it entailed. He smiled to himself. Amazing how simple. Why
didn’t we all just do that, all the time?
***
George liked getting ready for church, wearing your ‘Sunday best.’ We
should all put our best faces on for one another. As a child he had liked a
local judge and his clerk, who worked with his mother. Supremely
confident men, who spoke with authority that must be derived from deep
knowledge, long experience, and some indescribable source of power or
wisdom. He knew many judges and had been a confident judicial clerk
himself.
But the men he knew as an adult wore their confidence as a
borrowed coat. He did not believe it. Especially the men he’d meet with
after the service in the men’s bible study group in Jackie’s congregation.

Icemaker

Jackie’s church was the wrong side of the recent split, in his mind. He
relished coming to them as a friendly, disruptive force. A close reader
and an asker of provocative questions, capped with a certain flourish: “I
don’t pretend to know more than the next man. But surely we must
ask?” He laid that out there, as a stone securing the edge of his question
as it billowed and pulsed like a sheet in a strong breeze. The other men,
he sensed, knew exactly: it meant doubt. Doubt was not necessary. It
was an adornment, or private, for the priest. Bible group was for
applying well understood lessons to the contingencies of life.
The men’s unwillingness to engage his doubt enraged and amused
him and led him to engage Jackie’s church more deeply. Which pleased
her.
Jackie did not traffic in doubt or not doubt. This was what men
did. She complimented how he looked. “My prepster,” she said to him,
using his word. There was affection, but it was that of a person who has
lucked in to something, which he disliked. And he disliked how she said
‘prepster.’
While he waited on the balcony for her, the widow and her girls
came out. “Hello,” she said in a friendly manner. “Do you and Jackie go
to the same church?” the widow asked. She held her cross before letting
it fall back to her sweater. The girls looked like dolls in their church
dresses and patent leather shoes. They were aware of the attention they
attracted. They clung shyly to their mother while she greeted George,

Icemaker

then scattered after a ball that caromed into the stairwell.
George was glad for the quiet so he could show his interest in the girls.
“Where did you get them?” He said suddenly. The widow looked
puzzled, then looked up as the icemaker switched on behind her and
released a new sheet. She smiled. “More ice!” Then, intimately, “I have
a stash of Nutribars.” George pulled out his pockets to show he was out.
She smiled and handed him a mixed berry. An advantage of
Nutribars was their slim profile. They could rest invisible in your pocket.
After the widow had left he thought about his false tooth, whiter than the
others, and the dark spot that bloomed slightly left of the bottom of his
zipper. He recalled a glimpse of a wedding picture on the widows living
room wall. The widow with her husband, a moon-faced man with thin
black hair and bulging blue eyes.
As the widow and her girls made their way across the parking lot,
Jackie emerged ready for church. “Poor thing,” Jackie said, smoothing
her Western style jacket and leaning in for a kiss on the cheek. “She
moved in a few months ago. Her husband had cancer. And those girls,
without their papa!”
Jackie began to cry but wiped her face as though beating it back.
She cried easily, but felt it was not seemly, like if one’s bosom showed
through a blouse, or if others could smell your feminine odors. George
looked vaguely irritated, but stayed there watching her. He had a fleeting
thought: He did not sign up for this kind of thing. But he dismissed it just

Icemaker

as quickly.
George’s Volvo SUV was immaculate. He’d bought it from a Mrs.
Gamble in one of the toney suburbs 3 years ago, and the brakes were old
and the chassis was heavy. He could not stop short, so he began braking
well before stop signs and lights. On the back left floor mat there was a
dried out muddy outline of his son Augie’s right boot from the day
before.
It had been pouring rain when he picked Augie and Gregory up
after their trip to ‘Cabo.’
They were tanned, all in linens, smashed with rain and laughing
when George pulled up. He had a glimpse of Augie’s old devoted look
at his mother when she called his bluffs.
Augie and Gregory had a mock-heated exchange as George
pressed the remote for the trunk, which ended with Gregory sitting “with
the grownups” and Augie just behind George in the rear seat. Gregory
put on a loud cd and hardly talked to George while making eyes at
Augie in the back seat. What was Augie doing?
Gregory made pursing smiles at him. When he dropped them off in
the city there was neither an invitation in nor a plan for the next visit.
Augie did turn to him for a moment. “Thanks, pa. We’re tired, but let’s
talk soon.” And he disappeared into the warehouse with the bright
beams and wires and brick and big windows.
Later that day, George was still thinking about Jackie’s comment.

Icemaker

Poor thing. The widow didn’t dress poorly. In fact, her clothes looked
expensive, if modest and a bit worn. The girls were dressed almost
comically cutely. Her car was an economy American sedan with the
sport package upgrade. She left the place with the girls at 9:30 most
mornings, and usually returned after 2.
She had been quite friendly, quite joyous when she and the girls
returned from church. Jackie and George were going for their walk
before the football, and the widow came up the stairs with her girls
shouting a song in unison. She looked at them both, beamed, and said
hello. George was grateful she didn’t strike up a conversation that might
lead back to one of their earlier talks.
Jackie knew and she didn’t know. That is, he had a key, and she
encouraged him to use the exercise room. But she didn’t know when he
came, and he timed his visits for when she’d be out so as not to lose too
much time in the workday. The Grommell project was a bear, and he had
almost billed out past the retainer and would need income. So the visits,
though sanctioned, weren’t known. And for that reason they felt like a
secret, and his talks with the widow felt like a secret.
He worried Jackie would take it the wrong way. Once last fall, for
her birthday, he let himself in and set up dinner. He’d bought various
foods from a gourmet grocery Jackie liked nearby, New Markets. When
she came home and found him there she was quiet with apprehension, as
though his flowers and his containers from New Markets caused her to

Icemaker

feel reservations. She excused herself to her room to tidy up. She sat on
the edge of her chair and felt suddenly very tired, thinking of her
departed husband, Frank. It was five minutes before she removed her
earrings and came out to offer a chaste kiss, and sat down to their meal.
George had left early with assurances that Jackie was only a little
tired. He would call her the next morning, and they would plan their day.
His own place, ten minutes further from the city, was spare.
Later that Sunday he saw the widow on the balcony—Rosie’s nap
time—as he left to pick up some food at New Markets. She wasn’t
smoking, but was looking out over the nearly empty interstate. “My girls
like you, Mr. Huffman. Were—are you—do you have children?”
“Yes I do. A boy—August” he said.
“Oh—that is a nice name.”
“He’s 28. He lives in the city and sometimes goes to lunch with his old
man.” George smiled bemusedly, he hoped.
She looked carefully at him, as though understanding more than he had
said.
“That’s not too far.”
“Yes, I am fortunate. I see him when I have meetings downtown.” This
was not strictly true. He had seen him, maybe twice a year, on his visits.
It used to be for dinner. Now, lunch.
“You are blessed.” The widow fingered her cross.
Truthfully, it was partly that he didn’t like Gregory, and vice versa.

Icemaker

Should he tell her that? The last dinner was Augie’s birthday. 26 years
old. Beautiful boy. The restaurant was breezy, white, open, and the
drinks cost nearly what George was used to paying for his lunch in the
new cafe in the grocery store.
He had thought only Augie and Gregory were coming to dinner,
but it became a party of 11, and he worried about the bill.
The boys, as Gregory called them, were fit and active—friends
from a biking group, Augie had said. George held off asking further. It
wasn’t the lifestyle. It was just the thought of men touching men that
repulsed him. And their jokes—he couldn’t keep up. It was like a secret
language.
As dinner progressed, the hat he’d brought as a gift came to feel
ridiculous. When Augie was eight he’d come home from the office with
a similar hat—bright red with silver wings. The senior partner, Bradley,
had given them to the workgroup— “lift up our minds!” Bradley. Christ.
Not Brad, not Mr. Thompson. And those absurd suspenders. “My thing,”
he used to say. But the hats. Those were good. Everyone liked them,
George thought. Runners all over the city wore them for a summer, then
they were discarded. Eight-year-old Augie loved the hat and insisted on
wearing it everywhere that summer.
George had chuckled out loud when he’d found one online while
he was designing Augie’s e-card. How did the web site know he’d like
this? He had left it tucked in his blazer pocket. Now it sat on his dresser

Icemaker

at home. The return postage made it hardly worth sending back.
When George headed out to New Markets, he saw the girls playing
in the fenced-in park. The older one had made piles of rubber chips and
was defending them from her sister. The little one—Rosie—ran through
the pile of chips to and her sister shrieked in protest. A little Godzilla
terrorizing Tokyo. They were playing close to a gap in the fence where
some hoodlum had cut a few links and peeled it back.
The widow’s door was propped open by the hinged safety latch.
The shades were drawn. Inside, it was dark, and cool, and a sweet smell
wafted out onto the shared balcony. “Who’s there?” George heard. “Oh,
oh. Just me,” George said. “The girls.” George sensed the widow’s mass
rising in the dark, then she was at the door. “The girls are ok. Just
playing at the park.” The widow looked puzzled. “I was napping.” She
looked faintly chagrined. “The meds they have me on. You could put
down a horse with these.” “Doctors, yes.” George said. His feeling that
he had nothing to say was upon him.
He saw the widow later in the parking lot as he returned from New
Markets, white boxes in hand. “Sorry about earlier,” she said.
“Migraines.” She made a wry face. “That playground is not the best
place for children,” he said. Her face grew cold. “I mean, the fence has
openings, and the street is busy.” She said nothing. George offered, “I
know this must be very hard on you.” At that, she thanked him briskly
and went her way. George felt he had offended, but really the widow

Icemaker

should understand the dangers?
After that George noticed that he did not see the widow on the front
balcony so often. George could hear a soft music, and sometimes the
television, coming through the wall or door from her apartment. Once he
smelled cigarette smoke when he was draping his workout clothes over
the railing on the back patio, but he did not say anything to her, just a
few feet away, obscured by frosted glass. Neither did she speak, though
he heard the squeak of the patio furniture after little Rosie began
pounding the glass with her fists.
***
The following weekend they had dinner plans. Jackie wore an
embroidered jacket with Western accents and had a cheese log ready for
him, as well as a sparkling water. Their reservations weren’t for an hour
with Bill and Nancy, the couple from church. “Don’t you look
debonair,” she said to him while he kissed her cheek. He had gotten the
bow tie just right, and had affected a pocket square and loafers with no
socks. He stood with the stiff soled shoes sinking into her plush carpet.
He was urgently hungry, but had to wait.
Bill and Nancy were coming from their parked car across the
parking lot. George watched from the balcony. A minute before, he’d
wanted to cut the cheese log but Jackie had shooed him off. He liked and
didn’t like this.
Bill and Nancy were in real estate together. They had signs in

Icemaker

lawns all over, and even a billboard near the highway exit. Nancy, who
was direct, gasped when she walked in – “oh my goodness, Jackie
dear. I mean, don’t get me wrong, but isn’t all this stuff from the house
with Frank?” Jackie looked uncomfortable. Bill grasped her arm and sat
her down. “Jackie,” he said, “you know Frank wanted you to move on.
Spend the money, redecorate. Do you need a new place?” George felt as
though he was not there.
Bill spread a cracker with a half inch of cheese and handed it to
Jackie. Nancy announced, “Bill brought us a bottle from his cellar. It’s
special!” George doubted it, then didn’t. Anyways, he no longer drank.
“You’re sure,” Bill asked, gesturing towards the bottle. George shook
his head. “More for us then!”
At first, he had been glad for Bill’s presence in the Bible
discussion group, for he wanted dialogue and Bill was a reasonable
sparring partner. After their conversation about the rift, though, he had
been rather standoffish. George felt that the folks who wrote the Bible
surely didn’t conceive of homosexuality as love. It was just physical.
But today it was love.
George had raised the issue to the group directly. He was searching
for truth, and the church had split, with one side (this one) refusing to
engage modern social issues, and the other developing a doctrinal
position about the big issues of the day.
It came down, in George’s mind, to 1 Corithians 6: 9-10: “Or do

Icemaker

you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God?
Do not be deceived: neither the sexually immoral, nor idolaters, nor
adulterers, nor men who practice homosexuality, nor thieves, nor the
greedy, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers will inherit the
kingdom of God.” George had started his turn leading discussion
dramatically with this passage. His hope was to read into 1 Corinthians
7, with all the material about marital sex as a concession, and so all sex
is sinful because the body is God’s and the tension is between bodily
desires and serving God, not really about homosexuality. At the time,
homosexuality was used as an example of an obviously sinful sexual
practice meant to connect to the listener of the time in order to make a
bigger point about how people should see marriage. Surely so much in
our reading of the Bible has shifted that we recognize moments when the
Bible’s verses are rhetorically pitched to an ancient (and often listening)
audience, and we adjust to consider how, were the rhetoric targeted
towards US, it would be different — ultimately it was an exhortation
from god to worship and to love in the proper spirit. That was the point.
Since the meeting, George thought of this as his soliloquy. He felt
its nuance, and sensed how an engaged argument could be made against
it. And he knew he didn’t have an example of other rhetorical situations
to compare this too, which would be helpful. But the point was
engagement, and he was met, after his soliloquy, with a stony silence.
There were so many other examples of this—comments about the

Icemaker

cursed children of Ham, and the genocidal exhortations, and all the
finicky rules about dietary prohibitions. Surely we are always adapting
the book to the way we live now? Jackie’s side of the church didn’t
address any of this. It was silent, but that meant silent disapproval. The
other side—the widow’s—was active, almost evangelical, and focused
on the gay issue and abortion. They offered free counseling services, a
euphemism. But maybe not – it was counseling, after all.
Perhaps he erred by asking Bill, who was cutting into the cheese
log, how he’d chosen this side of the church during the split. Bill’s
features tightened. “George, you seem a good sort. Let’s leave that
question aside. I’m happy to answer your questions about scripture. The
way Bill said it bothered him, as though it were not a dialogue of equals,
but something different. Bill made a show of doling out crackers
slathered with soft, peppery cheese.
“Fudge, I forgot to make ice,” Jackie announced. She lifted her
purse from the second hook by the door. “Never fear!” George called.
He found the silver ice bucket in the high cabinet over the fridge and
rinsed it out. “I’ll be just a minute.” He propped the door with the safety
latch and eased it closed. Bill, behind him, said “Don’t worry—we’ll let
you in” and closed the door with a click.
He thrust the scoop savagely into the ice, and struck a large object
towards the back. “Probably a bolus,” he thought. The machine was
old—perhaps its motor sometimes conked out, or the fluid lines were

Icemaker

old and cracked and so, in this kind of weather, there was water which
trickled over a ball of fused cubes and made something monstrous, or
maybe just a lump. George’s wrist hurt from the impact. When he turned
back towards Jackie’s, he sensed a small impediment on the balcony.
Rosie twined in and out of the railing that separated the balcony
from the parking lot below. George felt chills run through him. When he
was a teenager, his mother had a baby—Paul. George had had a
recurring bad dream in which he dropped Paul over the stairwell onto a
concrete floor below. The worst of the dreams was that dropping Paul
was not accidental. He did it deliberately, and seized with regret as soon
as Paul’s body was out of reach.
Rosie was staring at George from behind an iron flower welded
between two of the bars, her leg hooked around another. Her dress
dangled over the parking lot, fifteen feet below. Carefully, George
pulled his breath mints from his pocket and sat cross-legged on the
widow’s door mat. He put two mints on top of the box and pushed them
towards her. She looked at them curiously for a moment, then back at
George. Instinctively, he looked around for someone to take over. He
tried grinning, and that with a look of sympathy, and whispered “come
on, then. It’s ok. Tasty.” She perked up at the word. George said it again:
“Tasty.” And several more times, eventually modulating into a comical
Chinese accent and wrinkling up his eyes “Tasty tasty TASTY haha!” He
knew this was wrong, but she watched him while he did it, and that

Icemaker

might bring her towards him. He looked down to the parking lot, but no
one was nearby enough for his voice.
The girl still leaned away from him, holding her small body out
over the abyss with one hand gripping the railing. George felt the blood
drain from his cheeks, and was mute with terror. He could not move.
What if he startled the girl and she fell? He pulled his phone from his
pocket and checked for missed calls, moving very slowly. Jackie had
confirmed dinner with Bill and Nancy and he was cc’d. Nothing from
Grommell. The delay was infuriating. Should he write him a stern
electronic message?
From the corner of his vision he saw a hand take a TicTac and
Rosie sitting opposite him. Relief washed through him. She scrunched
up her face. “Tasty!”, she said in a fake Chinese accent while she
considered the little white pill. She popped it into her mouth and rolled it
around for a moment before her face contorted and she spit it out and
rubbed her tongue with her sleeve. “Too spicy!” She said. George
laughed. “Too spicy,” he said. She reached the TicTac box to him.
“Tasty!” She said, wrinkling her face. She popped the mint into his
mouth, jabbering “tasty tasty tasty” in a weird accent loudly. George
said “spicy?” And Rosie was delighted. She shouted “SPICY SPICY
SPICY,” grabbing her belly and rolling on the concrete.
The widow’s door opened and they both heard “Rosie!” in a hoarse
whisper. All was dark inside. Rosie got up. Her pockets overflowed with

Icemaker

ice, like stolen diamonds. Dark wet patches bloomed down her legs. She
fished a cube of ice out of her pocket and popped it into her mouth.
“Tasty! Spicy! Tasty! Spicy! Tasty spicy tasty spicy hahahahahahahah.”
The child would not stop its unworldly laugh. George forced a
smile and turned to Jackie’s door. He stood silent for a moment. He tried
Jackie’s door handle and it was locked. He had been gone a while—had
they forgotten? He knocked tentatively. After a long minute, he heard
the swing of the safety latch and the door opened. In the living room,
Bill’s deep bass. He walked before the lit faces, intensely listening and
announced, “I’ve got ice!”
Evidently they were in the middle of a new conversation. Nancy
said to George: “We were just talking about your next-door neighbor,
Brita. I know her from church, and we’re selling her house. Anyways,
we were asking Jackie about something funny Brita said, that you’d
moved in?”
George felt hot and ashamed. Jackie jumped in — “of course not,
that’s silly. George comes by to work out sometimes. It’s right by his
work, and we have the kind of elliptical trainers he prefers. Look at you
though. It’s fine. I’m a grownup. She took George’s hand. We’re fine.
My prepster is welcome.”
Bill and Nancy smiled, but George knew they were holding back.
It was time to go to dinner. The cheese log had just an inch or two left.
George knew he would surprise them all by paying the check, but he

Icemaker

already worried about the cost.


