The persistent rain this morning is the offspring of the
raucous storm that belched thunder, spit bolts of lightning, and
drenched the area overnight.
Jake watches water dribble down the window pane of his
office in a slithering path. He shifts his weight in the chair
and focuses on a single rivulet dripping in descent with an
intensity that renders everything beyond the glass an
unrecognizable mass. His view is borne of an attempt to avoid a
confrontation with his boss. It’s an unfinished disagreement
that surged into an argument before a phone call interrupted.
Jake strokes the tip of his wispy rust colored beard, the
one he grew to look older, fearing that people might be
reluctant to speak with a reporter appearing too young to be
asking them questions.
The click of the receiver returning to its cradle, the
creak of floorboards behind him, and a perfunctory cough signal
the return of Ellis.
“I don’t care! We need to run with it,” the old man barks.
The two men had been preparing the set-up for the Berkshire
Banner. They focus their efforts every Saturday morning on the
task of sorting through stories and allocating precious space,
fitting in ads, choosing headlines, and editing articles for the
weekly paper that covers Williamstown and the mountainous
northwest corner of Massachusetts each Sunday. Once the
decisions are finalized the rest of the day is consumed by
constructing templates for the press.
Jake swivels in his chair to face the Banner’s editor and
owner. The reddened cheeks and scowl that confront him are
ominous. Ellis clutches a handful of papers in one hand while
his other grips a Styrofoam cup. Jake hasn’t seen him this angry
before. Yet he feels compelled to press his point.
“But Ellis,” he appeals, “we’ll look like a check-out
counter tabloid. Is that what your grandfather would’ve done
when he was the editor?”
Jake rises from his seat and stares at Ellis. The five
decades difference in their ages and the distinction between
their titles already place him at a disadvantage. The candor he
wields surprises him, especially invoking Ellis’s grandfather,
the legendary founder of The Banner.
Ellis remains still and defiant. His silence sucks life
from the room. The ticking of an old grandfather’s clock is the
only other sound to be heard. Jake feigns confidence by casually
placing his ceramic mug of tea down on the table without his
sight leaving his adversary.
The mug nearly misses its mark and balances unsteadily at
the edge of the sturdy table, the same table that’s sat unmoved,
2

Launch of a News Story
like most of the furniture in the room, for nearly half a
century. Jake looks away from his boss, down past his tea, at
the thin, wavy veins of the table’s oak wood. It’s the first
time he’s examined the detailed grain since he began working at
the paper a handful of years ago. He accepted the position soon
after college graduation, to temporarily return to his hometown
and care for his mom once lung cancer made her a widow. The
interim residence grew into long term as his mom remained mired
in the misery of his father’s unexpected death. Jake slowly
raises his head, like a white flag, and peers at the wrinkled
face of his mentor.
“Don’t bring up my grandfather’s legacy Jake,” he grumbles.
“I don’t ever want to hear that again.”
“Okay.”
Ellis shuffles over to the opposite end of the table.
Jake mutters an apology. “Maybe that was out-of-bounds. I’m
sorry.”
Ellis nods his head imperceptibly.
“But Ellis, we can run the story by just stating that she
was killed in the crash. We don’t have to report how she died.”
“The public has a right to know,” Ellis counters. The
elderly man’s glare pinches his furry eyebrows together, giving
the appearance of a long gray caterpillar resting beneath the

3

Launch of a News Story
creases of his forehead. “Anyway, in this small town, people
will hear about it sooner or later.”
“I know. But, do we really need the gory details? People
are tired of the carnage in Viet Nam on the news every night.”
He catches his breath. “Give them a break.”
Ellis lurches forward. “Listen Jake, maybe I didn’t go to
some fancy journalism school like you, but I know that a big
part of a good news story is how it impacts the audience.”
“Really,” Jake scoffs. “C’mon, you truly think people need
to know that the little girl was killed last night when she was
thrown from the car and spiked on the branch of a pine tree next
to the road, still in her car seat?”
The young reporter turns his back to the editor and looks
through the narrow streaks of water coating the window. A bright
yellow umbrella grabs his attention. Most everything else in the
view seems blurry and gray except for two figures beneath the
shield, a young woman and a little girl. They huddle under the
protection as they trudge along the sidewalk against the wind
and the downfall. The rain is unforgiving, and so it seems, is
his boss.
“That’s right young man! Details matter to a story. I
learned that years ago. Practical experience as an apprentice
right from high school. Now that I think about it, impaled would
be the better descriptor.”
4

Launch of a News Story
Ellis has reached a crescendo, his voice nearing a scream.
“The force of the crash threw the little girl from the car and
impaled her on a tree branch.”
Jake watches the two females leave his sight and wishes he
could vanish as well. Instead, he’s anchored to this small town
by his mother’s depth of despair. There’s nothing here for him.
Other than the cultural events designed for the college students
at Williams, there’s not much going on in the town. It’s a stale
social environment. Life seems to be passing him by. He tugs on
the end of his beard again, preferring to tune out Ellis, while
imagining the ability to quit work and pursue his dream of
writing a novel.
Ellis’s heavy, labored breathing is a rude reminder of the
storm inside the room. His daydream shattered, Jake delivers a
vigorous return. He’ll express himself, and if he loses his job,
so be it. Maybe he’ll have time to write that novel after all.
“Jesus Christ! How about respecting her family’s privacy
and their feelings Ellis?”
“What family?” The boss slams his papers on the table and
edges toward Jake. “Her parents were killed in the crash too!
All because of a drunk driver!”
“Is that it? Just because Sam Chalke said he smelled
alcohol?” Jake pivots back to his desk, yanks his notes from the
typewriter, crumples them up and tosses them into the adjacent
5

Launch of a News Story
trash can before stepping back in the direction of Ellis. “We
don’t know for sure what caused the crash. The driver of the
other car died on the way to the hospital before Sam or anyone
could get a word out of him.”
Ellis parries, “But one of the cops found several broken
wine bottles in the guy’s car.”
The men have drawn closer to each other with every
sentence. As the distance between the pair narrows, the
philosophical gap separating them widens. They've been drifting
apart incrementally, debate by debate, for the last couple of
months and the weight of this issue may be a breaking point.
“Everything okay guys?”
It’s Mitch, the jack-of-all trades general receptionist,
head of information, classifieds and the obituaries, and the
only other full-time employee of the paper. He pokes his head
around the corner of the entry to the main office.
“Yeah, we’re just working out the details of a story
Mitch.”
“Okay Ellis,” he says, looking at both parties for
assurances, before retreating to his work station.
Jake sips from his mug of tea in the interlude while Ellis
fidgets with something in his pocket.
The reporter tries to alter course. “What about the Apollo
mission to the moon? Remember, we have the text and pictures the
6

Launch of a News Story
AP wire provided in advance of tomorrow’s blast-off. Or how
about the IRA and British killing each other?”
“Old news on the Apollo stuff. It’s the fifth trip to the
moon and nothing’s changed. People aren’t impressed anymore. Not
even me, and I’ve been alive since Kitty Hawk and everything in
between.” He folds his arms and transfers his weight from one
foot to the other as he leans against the wall. “The IRA-British
thing. People are more concerned with what’s going on in their
own backyard,” Ellis sneers, “and the Ivory Tower at Williams
get what they want from the New York Times.” He casually
dismisses Jake’s transparent attempt to divert the focus of
their argument. “If you want to cover wall to wall news, then go
to work at a daily like the Times Union or The Republican, or,”
he adds sarcastically, “the Boston Globe.”
Jake refuses to yield so easy. He ignores the derisive
remarks and pursues his original objective of not publishing the
grisly facts of the infant girl’s death. “It’s a little too
convenient to push Kirkland’s campaign pledge

to get tough on

crime, especially drunk drivers, don’t you think?”
“That’s a load of crap!” Ellis waves a handful of papers in
a sweeping arc as he responds to his colleague. “Sam told me it
was the worst thing he’s seen in all the time he’s been county
sheriff.”

7

Launch of a News Story
“That doesn’t make the actual way she died any more
newsworthy!”
Ellis stands erect like a statue. Moving only his lips, he
dryly poses a taunting question. “How’d you like to be the
unlucky son of a bitch that had to pull her off the branch?”
Jake thinks of the paper’s audience. Except the people here
in town the population is mostly rural, with houses sprinkled
here and there throughout the region. It’s mostly a lower
middle-class area other than the Williams faculty, with little
transiency and an increasing median age. Not much changes in
Williamstown except the seasons of the year. The specifics of
the issue are not important, or appropriate, for review at the
breakfast table. Jake fights back with a stinging salvo, “Ellis,
you’re prostituting the paper.”
The boss’s temporal artery is bulging. A fear that his grip
at the helm of the paper is shrinking like his frail, aged body
exacerbates his plight. A growing list of doctor appointments
have filled his calendar and prompted reflection of his life. He
was destined to inherit his role as the third generation of the
family to lead the paper and laments the absence of an heir. His
wife walked out on him before bearing any children, claiming she
was tired of being a mistress because he was really married to
the paper. That began a dive into depression, drinking himself
to sleep each night while wondering what else he could’ve done
8

Launch of a News Story
if he hadn’t been born in servitude to the job. He’s convinced
himself the haunting habit is a self-medicated elixir for
loneliness rather than what it is – a problem with alcohol. That
view absolves his actions even while he blames a driver in the
crash of operating under the influence. Mortality is shadowing
him, his days become fewer as his tumor becomes larger, but he
sees no reason to acquiesce to his protégé now. His years in
newspaper have left him with many acquaintances and few friends.
Here he is, tangling with the one person he’s been closest to
the last several years.
There’s a break in the duel, as the editor again opts to
deflect the reporter’s verbal shots with silence. He lifts his
Styrofoam cup to his pursed lips and nonchalantly sips the tepid
black coffee. Finally, he gently places the cup alongside the
pot without taking his eyes from the assistant, reaches inside a
shirt pocket, retrieves a pair of eyeglasses, and sets them atop
his nose. He straightens himself up and calmly reiterates his
position.
“I’ll try to forget you said that Jake,” he offers. “But
don’t you ever forget this,” he raises his long, crooked index
finger and directs it at his adversary. “No governor has ever
come from this county, and what’s good for Kirkland is good for
the county, and what’s good for the county is good for The

9

Launch of a News Story
Banner, and,” he hesitates like a disciplined marksman patiently
reloading, “what’s good for The Banner is good for you.”
The exchange is halted by unexpected movement behind Ellis.
A little boy, a toddler, suddenly appears in the doorway,
wandering alone in the cramped foyer of the building. Jake
motions to the child.
Before the boy can react, a man old enough to be the boy’s
grandfather, appears from behind the wall separating the
entryway and the main office, scoops him up and hauls him off in
the direction of the news counter.
The unusual sight of a child in the newsroom also distracts
Ellis. Except for the occasional field trip from a local grade
school, kids are rarely seen in the room. It’s generally off
limits to even the paper delivery boys. Both men walk over and
peek around the corner.
The child clings to the stooped figure of his elder
companion, a nondescript man in his mid to late sixties, talking
to Mitch. Judging from Mitch’s downcast eyes, he’s not receiving
information for a used car ad or a yard sale. Jake’s assumption
is bleak; the man’s wife probably passed away.
Neither newspaperman recognizes the visitors. There are
only 8,000 people in the town, including the students of
Williams College, but they haven’t seen this pair before.

10

Launch of a News Story
Mitch is an experienced employee with the Banner. Jake
respects his colleague and often wondered how Mitch can gather
the bits and pieces of someone’s life, no matter how scrambled
their story or the circumstances of their death; and produce a
coherent and respectful obituary.
The boy slowly turns in the direction of Jake and Ellis and
gazes up at them. His pallid face reveals a weary and somber
expression. Red, swollen eyes offer a contrast in color. A thumb
is tucked into the corner of his mouth. Dried trails of tears
stand out against dirty cheeks. Snot trickles from a leaky
nostril. His scruffy brown hair is damp from the rain. The
clothes are askew and mismatched, like they were put on in the
dark or wrestled onto him by someone without experience dressing
a young child.
The man leaves the counter, grabs the boy’s tiny hand in
his and lumbers toward the door. He pauses and nods his head
toward the men as he exits the building.
Mitch exhales an extended sigh of sympathy. The mysterious
visitors and Mitch’s reaction lure both men to the counter.
“What was that all about?”
“What a shame,” Mitch mumbles as he collects his notes and
heads to his desk.
“His wife?” Jake asks.

11

Launch of a News Story
Mitch stops and replies with a barely noticeable sway of
his head side to side.
“Death is never easy on anyone,” Ellis adds.
“No, I suppose not,” Mitch responds. “And it’s never fair
either, especially for that little guy.” Mitch drops his
notebook on the desk, plunks himself in his chair, and looks up
blankly at his colleagues. “Not when your parents and your twin
sister are killed in a car crash.”
Mitch breaks the ensuing silence by informing his stunned
colleagues that the boy was spared due to his wheezing and
coughing. He had to stay with his grandparents last night
instead of going out with his family. He twists in the direction
of his typewriter as soon as the last word passes his lips and
before either of his co-workers can spot his watery eyes.
There’s no need to look at Ellis. Jake accepts defeat,
rightly sensing the man he was just arguing with about the
specifics of the tragedy is sporting an, I told you so,
expression. Nothing more needs to be said. The victor departs
without further words as a silent exclamation point to the
issue’s resolution.
The next morning, The Berkshire Banner will announce the
arrival of April 16, 1972 with a headline of the dreadful
accident that claimed the lives of three innocent local people,
including a little girl who was catapulted from the car and
12

Launch of a News Story
skewered by a tree branch. Beneath the photograph of the gnarled
metal taken by a free-lancer at the paper, are two smaller
pictures, one of the fourth victim, the out-of-town allegedly
drunk-driver being carted away by an ambulance crew; the other
of a tiny boy standing alone in the glow of a lamp on the raindraped porch of his grandparent’s home. Despite the dim lighting
his expression of vulnerability and distress is readily
apparent.
The canned feed from the Associated Press, a prepared
“background” story of the early morning blastoff of Apollo 16 on
a manned mission to the moon was relegated to appear beneath the
fold of the front page of the paper. Every other story in the
paper, from the pictures of the auxiliary rummage sale at the
local firehouse and the promotion of the upcoming high school
musical, to the feel-good article of the 60th wedding anniversary
of a joyous Williamstown couple, was squeezed in print space and
swallowed up by the emotions of the depressing report of the
tragic crash and the hopeful blast-off of the spacecraft.

13


