I’m a stalker.
That’s what my best friend Becky tells me as we wait in a nondescript mom-and-pop
restaurant for my birth mother, Linda Wiley, to show up.
I prefer to think I’m on a voyage of self-discovery.
I also like the term “scouted” over Becky’s insistence that I “cased the joint,” which is
the reason we are sitting at the bar, perched high up on stools that swivel, affording us a
bird’s eye view of every table and booth.
Furthermore, I’m partial to “overheard” as opposed to “eavesdropped,” which is
why I know Linda will be here any minute.
“What if she senses she’s being followed?” Becky says, “She probably terrified!”
“Don’t worry, Becks,” I say, “she’s not on to me. In the last week I’ve worn four
different pairs of sunglasses, three wigs and a motorcycle helmet.”
“Listen to yourself, Jo. You’re scaring some feeble old lady out of her mind. What
would you think if you saw someone wearing a motorcycle helmet when it’s still too early
in the year to be riding a motorcycle?”
First off, Linda Wiley is no feeble old lady.
Secondly, you’d think you could count on your best friend to cut you some slack, but
no. Becky’s irksome tone continues. “Why don’t you just cyberstalk her like a normal
person?”
I don’t answer. It’s grueling trying to keep an eye on the front and back entrances
(even though neither has opened in the last 10 minutes) and argue at the same time.
Although I must admit that most of the time we’re pretty good at multitasking when it
involves bickering with each other.
Besides, I tried to cyberstalk Linda as soon as I got the paperwork from the PI, but
her privacy settings were brutal.
Becky touches my arm and smiles her smile, that one she saves for me, the one I’ve
always interpreted to mean I’m a worthless cause but she’s still rooting for me anyway.
She’s beautiful when she smiles like this, even though she downplays her beauty, all her
long thick hair pulled straight back into a ponytail. She’s still not tempted by cosmetic
counters, even though we’ve both left our fortieth birthdays firmly behind us.
She ratchets down the harshness in favor of speaking to me like a fifth-grader.
“Here’s what I’m saying, Jo. Maybe this should be the end today. Either introduce yourself
to her, tell her you’re the daughter she gave up for adoption when she was 17, or walk
away.”
I’m not listening, because Linda is strolling through the front door, and luckily, over
to a table that’s only 20 feet away from us, and one with great lighting.
Our heads bent over our menues, we both watch her out of the corners of our eyes
as she pulls her coat off and lets it drop from her shoulders onto the chair behind her. Like
the other days I’ve trailed her, she is wearing casual but expensive clothes; today it’s jeans
and a long-sleeved blouse. She’s got money, but I don’t care. I have money too.
There are a few other patrons in the restaurant, and some turn to look at her as she
drops her keys—many, many keys—onto the tile floor. She was aiming for a pocket in her
coat but missed. Their eyes linger on her as she pushes her chair out and bends over to
pick them up. The wolf-whistle gorgeousness she obviously once possessed has faded, but

2

My Real Mother

there’s still a charisma about her. She’s fair-skinned, and I bet her short gray hair was once
blond. She has wrinkles, but not around her eyes, only sun rays that fan out from beneath
her rosy cheeks. Exceptionally big blue-green eyes glimmer as she rolls them at her
gracelessness.
There isn’t an iota of resemblance between the two of us. I’ve inherited none of her
beauty. My eyes are big but they’re plain old brown. My hair is dark too, and even if my
cheeks were pink and rosy, nobody would notice because they’re hidden somewhere in the
space my nose is taking up. I’d assumed that surely there was a critical mistake in the PI’s
report. I checked. There wasn’t.
Becky and I have been friends for so long, I not only can finish her sentences, I can
start them. But this time it’s easy. She whispers, “Are you sure that’s your biological
mother?”
“Yep.”
“Honestly,” Becky blurts out, “You look more like Gladys.”
Gladys is my adopted mother, the one I’ve known my whole life. Our predicament is
that we’ve become strangers to each other. She’s forgotten that I’m her daughter. Instead, I
am her long-deceased sister, and I find it peculiar that she never forgets to call me Eloise.
Even though she’s smack dab in the middle of the house she’s lived in for the past 40
years, she’s constantly on a quest to find her home, and resolute in her attempts to destroy
her current surroundings. She plugs up the sink or the tub and turns on the water. She
gravitates toward the stove, because what she loves the most is setting fires, and she
somehow deducts that the first thing could help her accomplish the second. I’ve never had

3

My Real Mother

children—have never been married for that matter—but over the years I’ve learned how to
childproof, and to stay one step ahead of her at all times.
At least Mom doesn’t have a clue that I’ve contacted Three Rivers, doesn’t know I’ve
recently received a return call.
Three Rivers is the crème de la crème as far as nursing homes go. That’s why a few
years ago, after caring for Mom for five years at that point, I put her on the waiting list.
Their receptionist called a month ago to tell me a room is going to be available. It’s quite an
ethical quandary for me because there’s been no change in Mom’s condition that I can’t
handle. So far I’ve been able to juggle the workload of my job by accomplishing as much as
I can on my home computer and hiring caregivers when I have to go into the office. If I skip
this opportunity now, though, and then something happens that I can’t manage, I might
have to put her in Cedar Lake, where there are no evergreen trees and no lake, and the
caregiving is rumored to be horrendous.
Unlike my oblivious mother, Becky knows the looming decision I’m faced with, and I
shoot her a nasty look for reminding me of it.
She has the grace to wince at her tactlessness. “Not that you look anything like
Gladys either,” she mumbles.
#
This is the last day of my week’s vacation. Early every morning I’ve parked my
inconspicuous gray compact car on a side street perpendicular to the Wiley bungalow.
Keeping my fingers crossed that my childhood infatuation with Nancy Drew would finally
pay off, I’ve waited for Linda to materialize.

4

My Real Mother

That first day when she emerged from her house, it wasn’t early enough for her to
be going to a job, but it wasn’t late enough that I was cleaning out my glove compartment.
She hopped into an illegally parked blue Jetta wagon, but I suppose if you block your own
driveway with your car, nobody calls the police department.
Linda’s apathy to traffic laws didn’t end with nonmoving violations. I detested
turning a blind eye to speed limit signs, and I began hyperventilating when I rolled through
all those stop signs. But I kept up. When she parked, so did I, and I did it better, all my tires
between the two painted lines. I heard Nancy Drew tsk-tsk’ing me though, because I
should’ve known when Linda left her house with all those books that she was going to the
library. I hadn’t needed to follow her at all.
Having never ventured out of the fiction stacks myself, I was shocked to find Linda
perusing books about people who actually existed. I sat down at a computer about 12 feet
away and listened to her hum as she opened a few and read the front and back jackets. I
clicked the mouse a few times but I didn’t need to. She was oblivious to the fact that
another person loomed so near, and although part of me—most of me—was relieved, there
was a teeny-weeny part that wanted her to walk over to where I sat and say, “I know you
are the daughter I carried inside me 43 years ago, and I think of you every day.”
Or something like that.
But how could I expect this sort of revelation from her? I knew for a fact my life had
begun in her belly, and all I felt was my right eyelid twitching, nerves from my earlier hot
pursuit.
In the grocery store on Tuesday, she talked out loud to food products, voicing her
disdain for their high prices, the aisle in which she finally located them, and their revamped

5

My Real Mother

packaging. I didn’t notice if she looked at me weirdly—a woman wearing a motorcycle
helmet in February—or if she glanced my way at all.
On Wednesday she went to a wooded park and pulled a backpack from the hatch of
her SUV, then crammed seven or eight phonebooks into it. (I wondered where she got the
phonebooks, did they even make them anymore?) Then she effortlessly heaved the straps
of the pack onto her shoulders and walked briskly into the woods.
As she was quickly smothered by huge trees, I stayed in my car. I couldn’t help but
notice the trail marker that boasted a length of seven miles. I weighed the pros and cons,
but what could I possibly learn from walking that far in bad shoes?
Thursday it rained, and Linda took her paraphernalia to a shopping mall. I wanted
to impress upon Nancy Drew that I was a worthwhile mentee, I really did, but the Nike
shoes I’d worn weren’t broken in yet, and I could feel blisters at my heels just walking in
from the lot. I’m disgraced to admit I couldn’t have kept up even if I’d tried. I bought a
book, sat at a table in the food court, and watched Linda pass about 12 or 13 times.
Friday I watched the presumed Mr. Wiley walk to his car carrying what looked like a
gym bag. I followed him just for the hell of it, not surprisingly, to a gym. That was the end
of that as I, of course, was not a member.
#
After requesting from the waitress cocktail sauce (me), sliced lemons (Becky), and a
side of cilantro (Becky, a dollar extra, but she doesn’t care because it’s my treat today),
there are finally fish tacos sitting in front of us that are to our liking. But just as we’re ready
to partake in our first chomp, a girl of about five years old explodes through the door and
rockets into Linda’s lap.

6

My Real Mother

“Grammy!” she exclaims, as if all the air in her little lungs is being expelled with that
one word.
“Ava!”
They are like sandpipers pecking sand on the beach, planting kisses on each other’s
cheeks, oblivious to the commotion at the entrance as a woman tries to squeeze through
the door with a baby carriage. Finally, the woman shuffles over to the table and kisses
Linda’s left cheek, the one that’s not currently occupied. Then she plops down across from
her and removes some blankets from the baby.
“How’s my little Jimmy, Karen?” Linda asks, pulling the buggy closer to her,
something of an accomplishment, as the little girl still hasn’t released the unyielding grip
she has on her neck.
“Asleep, Mom,” Linda’s daughter replies, beginning a game of tug o’ war, pulling the
buggy back toward herself. “This time, let’s try to keep it that way.”
In the previous week I’d learned Linda was an avid reader of biographies, that she
thought traffic laws were for other people, and that she was in great physical shape, not
only for her age but for any age. There was one thing, though, I’d thought I knew about her
always: She wasn’t fond of children. Now I know that there was only one child Linda
Wiley’s wasn’t partial to. That would be me.
I’m sure Karen and Ava are snapshots of Linda at younger ages. Karen is maybe 30
pounds heavier than her mom and Ava is just a child. Yet the resemblance is so blatant, I
marvel that there had to be men’s genes involved in the reproductive process.

7

My Real Mother

My brain is working hard to digest everything my eyes are assimilating. Forgetting
for a moment that Becky is still sitting beside me, I’m shocked when I hear her whisper, “Oh
my God.”
I look at her, and then to the door where Becky is staring wide-eyed and openmouthed.
The woman pulling the door open, then discovering and walking toward the group
we are scrutinizing, looks so much like me that my initial response is to duck behind the
bar like I’m playing hide-and-seek. I don’t. I’m too mesmerized as I explore her hair and
nose and eyes, all so much like my own. I was never consciously aware of it before, but
now I know I’ve yearned for this my whole life—to look like someone, and not because it’s
a fluke, but because we share DNA.
The ironic thing is that, even though she’s nothing like her glamorous mother, the
few male patrons here survey her as she enters. If we bare such a striking resemblance, I
ask myself, what is it about her that makes heads turn, while my entrance always goes
unnoticed? Of course I’m older, I figure a decade or so, but there’s something else. Maybe
it’s her smile or perhaps the way she carries herself, a vibe she gives off, as if life has always
been an exhilarating experience for her.
I remember a lust for living. It’s that thing I stopped experiencing seven years ago.
“Aunt Sara!” Ava descends from her grandmother’s lap and runs to greet the
woman, who bends down, scoops her up and fake growls into the child’s neck as she
squeezes her tight. Ava giggles and squirms. Sara puts her down, and Ava dashes back to
the lap she’d vacated.

8

My Real Mother

Greetings are exchanged, cheeks are kissed, a family is reunited. Is the reunion
complete? It is for today, because Linda chose a table for four. But are there other children,
other grandchildren? Should I make an effort to have these questions answered? Or
should I be satisfied with what I’ve already discovered?
The same teenage waitress who’d brought us our tacos distributes menus to them,
and the three adults talk to her as she does, effortlessly embracing a complete stranger.
After they place their order, Ava abandons Linda and plops down in the empty seat.
Then Linda unfolds a map and spreads it across the table. Karen retrieves a box of crayons
from her purse, and Ava begins vigorously scribbling on the section of the map nearest to
her with black and brown colors. Hopefully no one is going there.
Linda points to a spot far away from Ava’s energetic doodles. Sara leans in closer,
Karen walks around the buggy to their side of the table, and the three of them drop their
heads to survey the selected spot. Now that they’re so close to each other I can no longer
make out what’s being said, but then they all laugh, and I have no trouble hearing that.
I must look as sad as I feel because Becky says, “We could go on a vacation again, Jo.
Or take a long weekend or something. My kids are old enough to care for themselves when
Steve’s at work.” She shrugs. “At this point, they might not even kill each other.”
She adds, “And Gladys will be well taken care of at Three Rivers.”
But it’s not the vacations I’ve been unable to take for the past seven years that I’m
thinking about. What I miss is the laughter. As far back as I can remember, Mom could
always make me laugh. Her happy-go-luckiness was funny, but even when I was a child it
made me uneasy sometimes. She would belt out show tunes while she burnt dinner. She

9

My Real Mother

might pick me up late from school, but then she’d take me to the zoo, leading me through
the drainage tunnel so we’d get in for free.
Should I have known all along what her zaniness was leading up to?
“Remember that time we went to Gatlinburg?” Becky asks. “I can’t believe it was
over 20 years ago! Do you want to go there again?”
“No,” I say. There’s a sharpness to my word that I didn’t know was going to be there.
Probably I’m upset that she’s once again reminded me of the Three Rivers situation.
As Linda sees the waitress approaching with their food, she deftly begins to fold the
map into a small enough square so that Ava can continue to deface a section of it.
“Thanks so much,” the three adults say to the waitress as she sets their food down,
and I can’t help but notice that that’s all there is to it. Becky and I, no matter where we are,
dive or fine-dining restaurant, immediately scan our food that’s arrived and bombard the
waitress with special requests to accompany it before she escapes. Their behavior is more
polite, but I’m sure our food is tastier.
Sara takes a bite of her sandwich, Linda cuts some food up for Ava, but Karen sits
with her hands on her lap.
“Mom, I don’t like this whole thing,” she says. “Who will be with you on the weeks
not covered by friends or family?”
“Hon, I’ll be meeting people along the way. I’ve already met other hikers on the
Internet who’re starting the same time I am.”
Karen groans. “You’re not making me feel better, Mom.” She picks up her knife and
cuts her sandwich in half with much more gusto than appears required.

10

My Real Mother

Sara shoots her sister a dirty look. “I’ll be with her for the first two weeks, Karen,”
Sara says. “Then Joe is going for the next two. Bob’s going to meet her at the start of the
sixth.”
“I know the schedule, Sara,” Karen says, not without anger. “But there’re bears out
there, and no cell phone service, and cliffs she could fall off of.”
Even eavesdropping strangers can tell they’ve had conversations similar to this one
before. “It’s the Appalachian trail, Karen,” Sara says, her patience obviously waning.
“Thousands of people hike it every year.”
“How many are women doing it alone who are going to turn 60 out there?”
Becky chooses this moment to start laughing so hard that she starts to choke on her
taco. “She’s going to hike the Appalachian Trail!” she manages to say. How could it be that
Becky is just now figuring this out?
“Shut up,” I whisper angrily. She might need the Heimlich maneuver, but dammit, I
lectured her over and over how she was not to draw attention to us today.
To her credit, Becky quiets down. Her eyes are watering, but she doesn’t even clear
her throat. “Do you remember on our way to Gatlinburg how we couldn’t find a gas station
so you had to pee in a cornfield? You had post-traumatic stress disorder for a month.”
I don’t respond. I don’t want to encourage more laughing. But I have to admit I
certainly didn’t inherit Linda’s love of the wilderness.
Becky, who has sort of fallen off her stool a little, is struggling to pull herself erect. I
don’t help her.
“You know,” she says, “it’ll be worse for your quote-unquote mother over there.”
She adds in a stage whisper, “Number two will be involved.”

11

My Real Mother

By the time Becky’s settled down, the three women have moved on to another
discussion. They’re talking about the latest pop-star gossip. They take turns trying to get
Ava to eat. They steal food off each other’s plates, slap at the hands that do it.
I picture myself pulling a chair up to their table. There’s plenty of room. I tell them
my story, and they let me tell it without interruption. Linda cries and hugs me close. But
nobody steals food from me, and worse, they no longer steal it from each other.
And I realize I’m not going to tell Linda who I am. I was never going to tell her, but I
didn’t know it myself. The fact that I was adopted as an infant had always gnawed at me,
like a flea buzzing near my ear. In these last seven years of so many annoyances, big and
small, it was one thing I had the power to do something about.
What Becky said when we got here—that this should be my last day of stalking—
starts to sink in.
I am a stalker.
Suddenly, all I can focus on is getting out of here.
As discretely as possible, I wave at the waitress. When she comes over, I hand her
my Master Card without ever seeing the check.
“You were right,” I whisper to Becky, semi-frantically. “I was wrong. Let’s get out of
here.”
Becky, I’m sure, can see my bulging eyes, hear my quickened breathing, and feel me
clutching the sleeve of her blouse. She says, “I’m not finished eating.”
I really have to find a new friend.
I take the lid off the pepper and pour it on top of her tortilla.
I guess we should both find a new friend.

12

My Real Mother

The waitress returns with my credit card, and I add a tip on the merchant’s copy
that will make our waitress’s week.
Becky is looking at what’s left of her meal like it’s a town that’s been leveled by an
earthquake. For some reason, this calms me, and I say, “What sort of woman throws her
mother out like she’s yesterday’s trash?”
Reluctantly, she pulls her eyes away from her plate. She furrows her brows. “Do you
mean daughter?”
I shake my head.
“Oh,” she says, and then she adds, “oh, no.” She grabs my wrist and squeezes. It
hurts.
“Goddammit,” Becky adds, but there’s no gusto in her curse word, only frustration.
“Please don’t back out on Three Rivers. Please. I love your mom, Jo. I do. But she doesn’t
know where she is, she doesn’t know who you are. She wouldn’t want you to give up your
life to take care of her.”
Becky’s right. Mom always wanted me to be more like her. She thought I’d be
happier. The fact that I turned out to be prudent, reliable and responsible was a
disappointment.
“From now on,” I say, not acknowledging I’ve heard a single word of her eloquent
speech, “we eat whatever they bring us. No additions, no substitutions. No more pissing off
waitresses.”
Becky stands up. She juts out her chin and takes a deep breath. Gingerly, she picks
up her purse. Ballerina-like, she ambles over to the baby buggy. With that smile of hers
that is meant just for me, she peeks inside.

13

My Real Mother

“What a cute baby,” she says, taking her time, smiling at each woman in turn.
Then she sashays out the door.
I know I should be fuming, but I feel like laughing, so hard that I cry and cry and cry.
I leave through the back door. That’s where I’ve hidden my little gray car, just in
case it’s not as inconspicuous as I think it is, just in case Linda Wiley was once a Nancy
Drew fan herself.
The bright sunlight is like an assault. I squint. Then I pull my phone out of my purse.
I call Three Rivers Nursing Home and tell the receptionist to take my mother off the waiting
list.
Before I left Mom today, sitting at the kitchen table with the lady from the agency, I
gave her a roll of paper towels and a bandage scissors. When I get home I know she will be
hidden behind a mound of Bounty cut in perfect inch-wide squares. She will peek out from
behind her work of art, and when she sees me, her whole face will light up. She doesn’t
recall that she’s my mother, but she remembers I’m someone she loves.

14


