My  plan  was  to  bring  Gino  joy.  Thankfully,  he  did  not  realize  that  I  had  a  plan,  because  if  
he  did  realize  that  I  had  a  plan,  then  the  plan  would  have  been  blown.  Planning  interactions  
with  people,  at  least  openly,  I  think,  is  not  generally  considered  a  grace.    
But  he  ruined  the  plan  anyway.  Even  though  there  was  no  way  he  knew  that  I  had  a  
plan,  he  still  ruined  it,  because  he’s  Gino,  and  that’s  what  Gino  does.  He  ruins  things.  He  knows,  
for  instance,  that  I  don’t  care  about  guns;  that  I,  in  fact,  believe  that  all  the  guns  in  the  world  
should  be  melted  down  and  repurposed  as  water  slides.  But  there  we  were  after  the  wake,  in  
his  basement,  in  our  suits:  drunk.  Him  taking  apart  his  father’s  .22.  Him  cleaning  every  piece.  
Him  praising  the  beauty  of  this  part  and  that.  Me  asking  questions,  in  excruciating  detail,  about  
every  little  screw,  the  pitch  of  the  thread,  the  meaning  of  caliber,  the  type  of  wood  for  the  
stock.  Me  selecting  my  words  as  carefully  as  he  dismantled  the  firing  pin.  Me,  sitting,  trying  
desperately  not  to  show  how  peculiar  I  thought  it  was,  that  he  had  not  mentioned  one  thing  
about  his  father.  Him,  sitting,  probably  trying  desperately  not  to  show  how  peculiar  he  thought  
it  was,  that  right  then,  all  of  a  sudden,  I  cared  about  his  hobby.  

Our  plan  was  to  rent  a  movie.  The  problem  was,  and  always  is,  in  the  selection  process.  
Scary  movies  for  her  evoke  unmentionably  bad  memories.  Comedies  for  me  are  never  funny  
enough.  Cartoons  for  both  of  us  are  bad  because  of  our  childhoods.  Romances  are  nice,  

sometimes,  but  around  that  particular  night,  we  were  having  trouble  finding  time  for  a  certain  
aspect  of  romance,  usually  defined  as  romance,  so  romances  were  out.  Action  movies  she  finds  
stupid,  so  those  were  out.  Documentaries  she  finds  irritating  because,  according  to  her,  for  the  
month  following  us  watching  a  documentary,  I  always  become  brooding  and  didactic  and  blame  
her  for  the  degradation  of  our  environment  (her  showers  are  too  long),  or  accuse  her  of  
ignoring  world  hunger  (she  lets  leftovers  rot  in  the  fridge).  But  this  accusation  by  her  simply  
isn’t  true.  Those  were  virtues  of  mine  before  the  stupid  movie.  Documentaries,  anyway,  are  
out.    
That’s  how  problematic  the  selection  process  is.  All  of  those  genres  are  on  the  exclusion  
list  before  we  even  begin  the  haggling,  which  on  this  particular  night,  began  with  me  suggesting  
a  movie  about  a  couple  that  adopted  a  boy  and  raised  him  as  if  they  gave  birth  to  him.  After  he  
graduates  high  school,  he  finds  out  that  they  did  not  give  birth  to  him,  and  so  this  existential  
vacuum  is  created,  and  he  loses  his  shit,  and  his  adoptive  parents  were  alcoholics  anyway,  so  he  
kills  them,  and  then  goes  on  this  search  for  his  real  parents,  and  blah  blah  blah,  it  sounded  
interesting,  and  that’s  what  I  wanted  to  watch,  but  my  movie  description  reminded  her  of  a  
recurring  argument  we’d  been  having  over  our  age,  and  whether  or  not  it  was  too  late  for  
children,  so  it  was  out.    
She  countered  with  a  movie  about  a  boy  whose  father  drinks  too  much  and  abuses  him  
emotionally,  so  the  boy  grows  up  with  these  really  negative  feelings  for  his  father  that  
eventually  manifest  in  him  never  talking  to  his  father  again,  and  then  becoming  an  alcoholic  
himself,  and  emotionally  abusive  to  anyone  who  cares  to  know  him.  
I  said,  That  sounds  horrible.    

She  said,  Because  of  your  dad?  which  made  no  sense  to  me,  because  my  dad  was  not  a  
terrible  alcoholic  dad,  the  movie  just  sounded  trite.  Yes,  my  dad  was  a  bit  of  a  racist.  Yes,  my  
dad  was  a  bit  of  a  misogynist.  But  he  was  not  a  terrible  dad.    
Yes,  he’d  say  things  like,  a  good  woman  is  one  who  won’t  turn  her  nose  when  you  smell,  
who  won’t  lie  when  you’re  seeking  the  truth,  who  won’t  spread  too  much  jelly  where  there  
should  be  jam;  a  good  woman  is  one  who  likes  to  stay  home  and  watch  the  game  instead  of  
travel  to  far-­‐away  places;  a  good  woman  is  one  who  is  faithful  in  the  biblical  sense,  even  when  
her  mind  yearns  for  something  greater;  a  good  woman  is  balanced  all  around,  for  example:  a  
woman  with  an  ass  disproportionate  to  her  tits  will  grow  fat;  a  woman  with  tits  
disproportionate  to  her  ass  will  grow  fat;  a  woman  who  is  fat  is  fat.  A  woman  who  likes  to  
argue,  even  when  she  knows  she  is  wrong,  is  a  bitch.    A  woman  who  likes  to  argue,  and  is  fat,  is  
a  fat  bitch.  A  woman,  son,  is  not  something  to  be  understood.  
Yes  he  said  these  things,  but  that  does  not  mean  that  he  was  a  terrible  father,  or  that  he  
had  passed  on  his  strange  prejudices  to  me.  It  just  means  that  I  know  about  those  things,  and  
that  he  said  them  to  me.    
But  I  did  not  say  them.  
So  to  her,  I  said,  Maybe  we  should  get  another  TV,  and  watch  our  own  movies,  at  our  
own  leisure,  until  we  resolve  our  neuroses.    
And  of  course  she  didn’t  like  that  idea,  but  I  didn’t  know  she  didn’t  like  that  idea  
because  she  expressed  displeasure  using  words,  I  could  just  tell  by  the  way  she  pursed  her  lips,  
and  then  rolled  her  fat  ass  off  the  couch  to  retreat  to  the  bedroom.  And  praise  Jesus  she  did,  
because  underneath  all  that  blubber  lived  something  I  could  understand:  that  black  thing  with  

the  two  triangle  buttons  for  volume,  and  the  two  square  buttons  to  change  the  channel.  The  
thing  that  always  brings  me  comfort,  but  whose  name  I  can  never  remember.  
  

Id  
The  plan,  if  executed  correctly,  was  to  pair  Sarah  and  Gino.  Both  of  them  had  recently  
ended  traumatic  long-­‐term  relationships:  Sarah’s  in  divorce,  Gino’s  in  a  dumping.    
They  were  not  well.  Sarah  couldn’t  walk  without  someone  under  her  arm  to  hold  her  
steady.  Gino  couldn’t  watch  TV,  hold  a  fork,  or  look  in  the  mirror  without  being  drunk.  They  
both  became  gaunt  after  a  few  weeks:  skinny  thighs,  knobby  knees,  ribs  showing  above  booze-­‐
bloated  bellies.    
Every  hungover  Sunday  they  both  would  maroon  themselves  beneath  their  sheets  
before  finding  just  enough  strength  to  put  on  some  clothes  and  drive  to  my  wife’s  and  my  
house,  where  we  would  nourish  them,  tell  them  they  were  beautiful,  listen  to  them  
compliment  our  wonderful  relationship,  listen  to  them  damn  our  relationship  for  being  so  
wonderful,  listen  to  them  cry  for  having  such  a  high  standard  to  meet:  our  relationship.    
We  would  dress  in  long  robes,  my  wife  and  I,  to  make  the  environment  more  
comforting.  We  would  make  sure  that  they  never  showed  up  on  the  same  day  because  we  were  
afraid  that  their  gloom,  if  combined,  would  make  us  hate  them.    
But  pairing  them  was  the  long  term  plan.  We  couldn’t  think  of  a  better  pairing,  on  
paper,  than  Sarah  and  Gino.  Both  very  attractive.  Both  Jewish.  Both  friends  of  ours.  They  both  
had  some  problems,  but  I  had  a  plan  for  those  problems.  A  plan  to  disguise  those  problems.  A  
plan  to  cultivate  a  soft  filter  of  understanding,  so  when  the  problems  became  apparent,  they  

wouldn’t  pour  down  like  acid  rain  on  the  carefully  contrived  fibers  of  their  relationship,  but  
instead  sprinkle  down  like  an  annoying  drizzle.  Plans  and  plans  and  plans  I  had.    
And  that’s  when  my  wife  dropped  out,  after  I  explained  to  her  the  plans.  “Planning  our  
friend’s  futures  is  arrogant  and  weird,”  she  said.    
To  which  I  said,  “Doing  nothing  could  lead  to  their  deaths.”    
But  she  did  not  recognize  the  severity  of  their  loneliness.  She  wanted  nothing  of  it.  
Aloof,  I  called  her  in  my  head.  I  feel  for  them,  I  thought  to  myself.  And  so  I  waited  for  a  Saturday  
when  my  wife  was  working  to  invite  them  both  for  breakfast.    
I  prepared  eggs  for  Gino,  and  pancakes  for  Sarah.  When  Sarah  showed  up  first,  I  
nonchalantly  mentioned  that  we  would  be  entertaining  another  guest.    
She  asked,  “Who  are  we  were  entertaining?”  
I  said,  “This  guy.”    
She  asked,  “Who?”    
And  then  I  said,  “This  guy,  he’s  a  friend,  he’s  an  engineer  from  work.  But  don’t  worry,  
he’s  not  the  type  of  engineer  that  says  awkward  things  at  parties,  and  has  trouble  discerning  
facial  expressions,  he’s  more  like  the  type  of  engineer  who  enjoys  designing  and  building  
relationships  with  his  friends.”    
This,  of  course,  was  a  joke.  A  joke  that  Sarah  did  not  understand.  I  could  tell  that  she  did  
not  understand  by  the  fact  that  she  did  not  laugh,  and  by  the  fact  that  I  am  an  engineer,  and  
have  trouble  with  jokes.  And  facial  expressions.    
So  we  were  quiet  for  a  few  moments,  which  made  me  feel  awkward;  a  feeling  I  most  
definitely  did  not  plan  on  feeling,  but  a  feeling,  in  hindsight,  that  might  have  been  a  perfect  

vacuum  for  Gino  to  fill,  had  he  been  there,  which  he  was  not,  because  he  is  Gino,  and  he  always  
ruins  the  plans.    
So  I  cracked  a  couple  more  eggs  into  the  pan  to  look  busy,  and  to  fill  the  vacuum,  which  
only  populated  the  pan  with  several  more  eggs  than  could  be  consumed,  and  made  it  seem  like  
I  was  trying  to  obfuscate  the  vacuum  of  awkwardness,  until  Sarah  asked,  out  of  ether,  “Why  
would  I  worry  about  him?”    
This  must  have  been  a  reference  to  something  I  had  said  earlier,  but  at  that  moment  in  
time  had  forgotten,  so  there  was  more  awkward  silence.  Until  it  happened.  Him.  He  blasted  
through  the  door  with  two  bottles  of  champagne,  one  bottle  of  O.J.,  clean  hair,  and  a  drunken  
air  of  confidence,  that  could  only  mean  one  thing,  that  he  was  drunk.  He  said  something  suave,  
like:  I’m  drunk,  and  I’m  happy,  so  let’s  get  drunker.  
And  so  we  sat  and  drank  and  ate  pancakes  and  eggs.  They  laughed  and  told  jokes  and  I  
fed  them  more  booze.  When  there  was  a  lull  in  the  laughter,  I  pulled  out  a  joint.  We  smoked.  
We  laughed  some  more.  They  left  together.  They  partied  and  dated  for  months  after  that.  It  
was  a  tenuous  foundation  to  build  off  of,  but  still  within  the  specifications  of  the  plan.    
When  it  appeared  that  their  relationship  was  serious,  my  wife  and  I  began  inviting  them  
over  for  dinners.  We  would  cook  salmon,  steak,  hand-­‐rolled  sushi.  We  would  do  it  because  we  
loved  both  of  our  friends.  We  would  do  it  because  we  were  happy  that  they  were  together.    
Once  in  a  while,  at  these  dinners,  one  or  the  other  of  these  friends  would  pull  me  aside  
in  the  hall,  to  quietly  ask  about  some  foible  of  the  other.  At  these  unexpected  times,  I  would  
say  to  one  or  the  other  that  the  foible  was  an  amazing  trait  of  that  person,  wasn’t  it?  The  

passion.  The  keen  sarcasm.  The  ability  to  drink  more  than  most  (Gino).  The  ability  to  apologize  
(Sarah).    
Their  relationship  went  a  year  like  this  before  the  light  drizzle  turned  acidic.  Sarah  
called.  It  was  Gino.  His  alcoholism  was  not  improving.  He  became  jealous  when  she  went  out  
with  friends.  He  left  nasty  messages  on  her  phone.  He  was  a  kind  guy,  she  said,  a  romantic  guy  
when  sober.  But  he  was  jealous  and  weird  when  he  drank.    
I  said  to  her,  He  needs  to  stop  drinking.    
She  agreed,  but  did  not  know  how  to  help  him.    
I  said,  It  would  be  helpful  if  you  led  by  example.    
She  said,  She  didn’t  have  a  problem  with  her  own  drinking,  and  she  enjoyed  a  drink  here  
and  there,  so  drinking  sensibly  would  not  be  a  freedom  that  she  would  be  willing  to  give  up.    
I  said,  For  love,  sacrifice  is  endless.    
She  said,  I  love  him  but  I’m  not  in  love  with  him.    
I  said,  Let  me  talk  to  him.  Please  be  understanding.  
I  had  a  plan  for  this.  I  called  Gino.  He  said  that  he  was  confused  by  her.  That  she  was  
sending  him  mixed  messages.  She  would  always  want  him  to  come  and  sleep  over,  but  only  
after  hanging  out  with  friends.  He  said  that  except  for  in  bed,  they  were  very  rarely  alone.  And  
when  they  were  alone,  she  was  always  on  her  phone.  Her  friends,  while  all  very  nice,  weren’t  
necessarily  his  friends,  so  the  jokes  that  they  would  tell,  and  the  way  that  they  would  tell  them,  
he  didn’t  always  understand.  The  distraction  of  all  these  friends  made  it  difficult  to  build  a  
relationship  with  her.  When  he  told  her  he  loved  her,  she  said  something  vague,  like,  I  love  you  
as  a  friend  too.  Gino  said  that  it  was  hard  to  be  happy  without  a  sign  of  growth  in  their  

relationship,  but  that  she  was  the  most  awesome  girl  he  had  ever  met.  He  wanted  that  
closeness.  He  wanted  to  move  in  with  her  soon.  It  had  been  a  year,  after  all.  He  admitted  he  
was  drinking  a  lot,  but  that  it  was  just  a  crutch.  
I  had  a  plan  for  this.  I  knew  Sarah  could  be  quite  aloof  sometimes.  I  called  her  back.  I  
said  that  Gino  is  a  sensitive  man  who  needed  to  be  treated  with  more  respect  than  a  wishy-­‐
washy  answer  to  his  saying  I  love  you.  I  said  that  men,  while  stupid,  are  sentient  beings  with  
feelings  just  like  you.  I  told  her  that  she  needed  to  empathize.  To  have  some  compassion.    
She  felt  bad.  She  said  that  I  was  right,  that  he  deserved  more  respect  than  that.  She  
called  him  shortly  after  and  said  that  she  just  wanted  to  be  friends.  
I  had  a  plan  for  this.  I  called  Gino.  He  was  drunk.  He  said  she  was  nasty  anyways.  That  
her  pussy  stank.    
I  said  that  she  was  my  friend  and  that  that  was  neither  a  nice  thing  to  say,  nor  was  it  an  
important  thing  to  say.  I  asked  him  to  name  a  deep  cavity  into  the  human  body  that  didn’t  
stink.    
He  said  that  he  knew  it  wasn’t  important,  that  he  was  just  hurt  and  was  thinking  of  
something  to  devalue  her  in  his  mind.  She  was  so  perfect  and  he  would  never  be  able  to  find  
someone  like  her  ever  again.    
I  said  that  he  was  being  silly.  I  told  him  I’d  make  him  some  scrambled  eggs.  I  told  him  I  
had  a  plan.  
I  called  Sarah.  I  told  her  I  was  upset  with  how  she  handled  the  whole  thing.    
She  said,  “You’re  upset?  What  about  me?  Your  friend  Gino  is  out  of  control.  He’s  been  
at  the  bar  every  night.  I  went  in  with  a  couple  of  friends  and  he  stumbled  into  our  group,  saying  

he  wanted  to  talk  with  me,  and  then  he  started  asking  my  friends  how  I’ve  been  doing,  because  
he’s  been  doing  lousy.  And  then  I  started  crying,  and  that  made  him  angry  for  some  reason.”  
“Please  just  empathize  with  him,”  I  said.  “He  has  a  lot  of  anger  right  now.”  
“I  know  he  does,”  she  said.  “He  grabbed  my  arm  and  yanked  me  outside.  He  bruised  me  
he  grabbed  it  so  hard.  The  whole  time  he  was  saying,  I  just  want  to  talk,  I  just  want  to  talk,  but  
he  was  saying  it  in  this  stern  way,  and  he  was  being  aggressive  enough  that  a  guy  at  the  bar  
became  upset  and  pushed  him  off  of  me.  He  was  so  drunk  he  fell  on  the  ground.  I  empathize  
with  him  but  I’ve  never  walked  home  alone  and  been  so  scared  in  my  life.  I  thought  he  was  
going  to  follow  me.”  
“Please  just  empathize,”  I  said.  But  I  probably  should  have  just  shut  up,  because  it  was  
right  then  I  realized  that  Gino,  me,  my  father,  and  possibly  every  man  who  has  ever  lived  on  this  
earth  had  totally  fucked  up  the  plans.  


