I walked up the flimsy stairs to my apartment. I turned the knob and flicked the
lights on. Millions of roaches scattered across the room. The walls moved in waves
from the roaches taking residency inside them. It made me cringe hearing the sound
of billions of legs moving in unison in a hallowed out wall.
I ignored the sound of roaches and open up the refrigerator in search for something
to eat. Hundreds of roaches poured out and I jumped up in fright; I took out
leftovers and nuked them in the microwave. I sat down on the bed ate my food like
rodent as I watched the roaches staring at me with their hungry beady compound
eyes.
I wondered what they were thinking inside their tiny disgusting heads. I had tried
every kind of method of getting rid of the roaches and the only thing that happened
was that they would be gone for a week but would come back from hiding with
stronger numbers than before. There were times in which they were invisible, but
today was different and I was noticing them to the point in where all I saw was
roaches.
I wished that the roaches would dissipate; the apartment was overheated and I
could barely move. The room was above the broiler room and so the apartment was
like an oven. I opened up the window to get some air flowing in, and more roaches
came running out and attacked me. I felt their small yet powerful bites on my skin.
I breathed in and out slowly; I shook my body and the roaches fell on the stained
brown carpet. I ran to the sink and opened up the cabinet beneath the sink and

pulled out some raid. I sprayed it frantically and the roaches danced around the
poison mocking it.
Some of the roaches writhed in pain and seized before me; their bellies revealed
and legs shaking and moments later they were dead. The other roaches ate their
carcasses, tearing their legs one by one and consuming them like miniature vultures.
The roaches came out from hiding and swarmed around me. Waves of roaches
poured from behind every corner. They were in my clothes, my shoes and in my
hair. I screamed at the top of my lungs and a chain of roaches reached the light
switched and turned off the light. My heart palpitated as I walked around the room
looking for the light; I could feel them crawling all over me. Their legs tickled every
part of my body and I quivered.
"Get off of me, you creatures from the pits of hell," I screamed at the top of my lungs.
I lit a match that was in my pocket and I saw a myriad of roaches move away from
me. I stare at the bright orange light that I held between my slender fingers; how
beautiful it was as it waved back in forth in the darkness. I moved slowly and the
flame went out but I didn't mind, no for the flame gave me an idea.
I walked to the refrigerator and opened the door. The roaches moved about in the
refrigerator looking for food in which to eat. I kept the fridge open for the tiny light
and looked under the sink and I grabbed the hammer. I laughed as I bashed the
Freon, and the gas leaked all over the floor.
I pulled out a box of matches from the top of the fridge. The roaches covered me
from head to toe and I pulled out the match and lifted it in the air between my
fingers.

"Now it's time for me to send you to hell where you belong!"
I struck the match and saw the bright orange flame once again in my hands. Tears
clouded my vision as I threw the match on the ground. An explosion of bright orange
and yellow light surrounded me. Bits and pieces of the apartment flickered like tiny
stars. I laughed hysterically as I flew like a bird out of the window. Glass cut through
my skin and the flames engulfed my body. I laughed watching my skin fall from my
bones the roaches hissed in anger. Their bodies burned up and in a moment they
were gone, sent to hell where they belong.
I woke up on the operation table. Six doctors surrounded me; my body was riddled
with shards of glass from the window and they had me cover except for my belly. I
saw one pull out a scalpel and I tried to scream but no sound came out and I was
paralyzed. The scalpel slit through my abdomen and hundreds of roaches poured
out like water from a faucet. Moments later nothing but darkness as the doctors and
nurses faded into the background and I was in the abyss.


