Device comprises thin, rigid recording strips that can be attached via adhesive undersides to
common household ventilation covers, allowing surveillance in a given room. The strips are
inset with recording apparati that can be attached via cable to a recording device via doubleheaded 3.5-mm TRS jack so that whatever sounds recorded can be kept. The strips are to be
small and thin, 6.5 inches long by 1 inches wide by 3 mm thick, so that they fit most standard
ventilation covers.

The surveillance liners would be most useful in providing an inconspicuous and effective
means of recording untoward behavior in a room or rooms of one’s house. If a parent suspects a
babysitter of abusing their child, that parent can attach the recording liners to vents throughout
their house and be able to record the babysitter. The strips, being mounted on ventilation covers,
would be almost invisible. Because of their unique design, the strips would also be able to
capture sound through alternate ventilation openings in other areas of the house, although
several strips could be mounted on each ventilation cover for the clearest recording.

The recording devices could also be used to apprehend burglars, using police voice
identification software, if the burglars talk a lot.
The device is novel in that it provides a very inconspicuous way to record audio in one’s
own home. Whereas video recording devices can be untrustworthy and obvious to infiltrators,
endangering those who use them, the adhesive ventilation-cover surveillance recording liners
are virtually undetectable.
The device is useful not just for parents or the burgled, either. If one wanted to find out what
was going on in his own bedroom when he was out of the house, he could attach a liner to his
bedroom ventilation cover, turn it on, and listen to what happened when he was away. Perhaps
the owner would find that even after taking a short trip just to go buy some milk, his girlfriend
had invited another man into his bedroom for the so-called “thrill” of doing it on the man’s own
bed. The audio pick-up of the recording devices would be engineered to a high frequency of
detection, allowing the man to hear the conniving and painful things the woman says about him
and his qualities in bed even as she’s undressing this other man. As well as the wet sounds of
passion the likes of which the man has never heard before, he’d be able to hear the terse pillow
talk thereafter—the idiotic whispered call and response of “Yes?”, “Yes”—and the sound of
half a bottle of fabric cleaner being sprayed onto the sheets, and also the sound of a fan turning
on to blow the excess scent out the window. Then the sound of the woman’s fretting as she
detects a stain on the sheets, and then the stained sheets being pulled off the bed and thrown into
the washing machine, and finally the woman scrubbing the stain from the mattress until it’s a
phantom.
The owner can even listen to his own voice when he comes back with the milk she wanted—
fat free and organic and soy-based—and asks her why the house smells so clean, and she claims

3
to have spent the last hour cleaning it, that’s why her dress is so rumpled, ha ha. She’d just been
cleaning the whole time, just cleaning, just cleaning. The man can listen to the sound of his own
body hitting his bare mattress as the girlfriend crawls on top of him, the man surprised and
excited at first by her sudden affection. Once she’s finished, he can gather the recording while
she’s in the bathroom, and can later figure out what really happened, and how duped and ruined
he feels after that.

3. If an adhesive ventilation-cover surveillance recording liner owner has an automatic airconditioning and/or heat-dispersement valve, it may have to be turned off so that it doesn’t
create too much white noise to be able to hear the events taking place in the room.

Thank you for your consideration,

Tim Hannick

——————

II
Patent Application 92,815,201
CONTAINER WITH INVERSE DISPENSING-ORIFICE THEREFOR
Tim Hannick, of Dover, DE, patent applicant
Filing January 22, 1981

4
Int. Cl.3 B73B

1. A container having an inverted dispensing orifice comprising a front panel, right and left
side panels, and a rear panel hingedly connected to form an enclosed chamber; a bottom closure
welded to the bottom of said panels to close the chamber at the bottom; a top closure welded to
the top of said panels to close the chamber at the top; means defining a dispensing flap in said
front panel, said means defined by the fact that items, such as rings, notes, and unused concert
tickets, are placed into the dispensing flap. When the flap is closed, the items placed within the
container are kept indefinitely. The flap can be opened again by means of a release button on the
side of the container. Once items are placed within the container, they cannot be retrieved at any
point. Once the container is full, it can be delivered to the owner’s local waste facility.

2. The container is best used to completely and finally rid the owner of objects and items he no
longer wants. For example, when his girlfriend writes the same apology notes again and again,
until they become abbreviations of themselves, perfunctory and insincere, he may wish to insert
them in the inverse dispenser and be rid of them forever, so they don’t just sit on his bed in lieu
of the girlfriend herself, who didn’t even bother to tell where she was going or who with, just
that she would be gone. The last notes she sent, being basic parodies of the first ones, read
simply “gone –K.” or “out –K.” or even “late,” scribbled so quickly the curve of the “e” just
dribbled off the page. These kinds of love notes are perfect for the container, as are the long,
heartfelt answers to them I wrote, which were skimmed and ignored. And then later when I
asked if she’d read my response and would be willing to talk, she laughed the idea away, and
shook my letter at me, saying “You mean this?” like the letter was laced with anthrax or cholera.

5
The issue, I guess, was finished, so into the container it went. I didn’t need to see that again, to
see where all my “babyish” feelings got me. And then the next night, off she’d be gone again,
with another tiny note, until eventually the notes stopped and I had nothing to put in the
container at all.

3. Some items may need to be crumpled, smashed, or broken to fit into the inverse dispensing
orifice.

Thank you for your consideration,

Tim Hannick

——————

III
Patent Application 92,816,315
WHIMCYCLE, MOBILE LARK-PURSUIT PROPELLANCY MODULE
Tim Hannick, of Mastens Corner, DE, patent applicant
Filing March 25, 1981
Int. Cl.3 8354 D

1. A mobile two-wheeled apparatus allowing a method of locomotion to the shortest-lasting

6
transfixions. The frame of the device comprises a longitudinal axis and combination of two (2)
footpedals mounted together on reciprocal linear motion means, attached by a crank to a
sprocket, around which concatenated chains circle. The device will contain a steerable front
wheel operably journaled on said frame and a rear-drive wheel including variable drive means
for receiving power to said drive wheel. The cycle’s direction is effected by rotation of a fronthandlebar steering means in operative connection with said wheels. Speed is determined by the
user, using the method of locomotion of oscillating the footpedals to move the device forward at
whichever velocity the rider so desires, especially when the rider endears to be as far away from
the inventor as possible.

2. Though the Whimcycle resembles the bicycle in many ways, and certainly owes much of its
manufacture to bicycles by Comte Mede de Sivrac, Baron Karl von Dries, and Kirkpatrick
MacMillan, who all perfected the model, I offer a nonstructural but unique improvement on
these men’s models. My Whimcycle, Mobile Lark-Pursuit Propellancy Module, differs from
previous models in the following ways:
(a) Mounted flags of various colors welded to crossbar, seat post, and handlebars, of various
sizes, many of which advertise archaic sports teams and misspelled slogans.
(b) Lights of various shapes and sizes attached to the frame of the Whimcycle. These lights
blinker and glow at irregular intervals to accentuate the chanciness of the rider.
(c) Assistance and/or decorative wheels attached to front or rear derailleur. Possible wheel
connection points will be placed at many points on the Whimcycle, allowing the rider to
choose if and howsoever to attach them. Many wheel connection points will be far above

7
the ground, not providing any assistance in locomotion, but only spinning endlessly in
their courses.
(d) Several playing cards, of various suits, placed between the wheels, announcing the
rider’s presence wherever the Whimcycle is ridden. It is the patent applicant’s opinion
that those of whom who would purchase a Whimcycle would also demand attention to
themselves as much as is possible. The Whimcycle was built to accommodate these
wishes.
(e) A variance of noisemakers, which will be mounted across the handlebars and will be
capable of an assortment of “honks.”
Disclaimer to points 2(a)-(e): None of the changes attached to the Whimcycle will affect the
structural integrity of the model.

3. Pending approval of Patent Application 92,816,315, an alternate model, in the standard of
the penny farthing bicycle, would be created, as it would match the potential buyers’ interest in
“cute” and immediately disregarded curiosities, such as gramophones, antique maps, and earnest
affection.

4. The patentee also wishes to pursue patent applicability of the name “Whimcycle,” and
wishes to thank the original inventor, [name withheld by legal writ], for assistance in creating
the device’s title. If it weren’t for [name withheld], the patent would not have been originally
realized, nor successfully executed. However, the original inventor has, in the opinion of the
patent applicant, ceded all rights to invention because she’s rejected all attempts at being
contacted to accept such nomination. [Name withheld] won’t even call me anymore. When an

8
attempt is made to contact her, a crackly-voiced robot informs me the number has been changed.
Was it so necessary to change the number? Was it really so horrifying to think that I might
perhaps call sometime, that I might want to figure out what it means when she says, “There’s
never a reason worth a decision.”? Then she goes and takes another ride on the Whimcycle,
another weekend spent out of total contact, me not knowing where she is at any point, coming
back with only vindictive smiles and deadened eyes. And no answers to any questions, and
when I ask them she makes me feel guilty for even being concerned.
The Whimcycle can take a rider anywhere she chooses, even the glass-bottle beach under
the bridge she used to visit to listen to the semitrucks overhead. They were so loud, so chaotic, it
sounded as if they’d come crashing right through the bridge, and it gave her gooseflesh, I felt it.
Only the Whimcycle could spoil a spot like that by its rider taking strangers there.
Or her going out to a basement dancehall where no one knew her name—there’s a whim if
anything is. And to meet someone there because he looked “nonPuritan,” because he looked
“like a harbinger.” What do these riddles even mean? And when this Mr. NonPuritan is finished
with—when his novelty is worn out, the next whim can be followed, as nothing is worth holding
on to, just continually pursuing, until the pursuit becomes its own routine, not that this should be
suggested to the pursuer, or she’ll start throwing things. Meanwhile I sit at home all the time just
thinking of possibilities, which are endless, of course.
Or when she calls me to come pick her up, and you can smell the sex right on her, and you
can see the handprints, and you can taste another man on her lips. When she rubs your legs,
putting your hand between hers, begging for forgiveness the only way she knows how. When
she vomits and weeps, again. When she scolds you for loving her. The Whimcycle wrecked,
meanwhile, thrown in the back of the car.

9

5. The Whimcycle’s not for everyone, of course. I couldn’t ever own one. I mean, pardon me,
but there is just something totally insincere about setting out not to have a plan, to plan
spontaneity. I can’t do it, as much as she encourages it. “Go on your own Whimcycle, if you
love that idea so much.” Like I’m the one who “loves” the Whimcycle! Like I’m the one who
rides it every night now, who pretends I’m happy not knowing who or what I am anymore,
making up another name for another evening—and why not? Why shouldn’t she be able to? She
can be anything she wants to be. Even the idea that I could influence her otherwise just makes
her angrier, and now of course she won’t call, as I mentioned above.
I showed her the plans for it, the design and all that, and she gave me this look you wouldn’t
believe—pure disgust. I told her it would be my gift to her, my last one. She said, “I already
have freedom,” just rotten with attitude. I swear she plagiarizes her attitude from her new
friends, whoever they are, whether they’re even still her friends anymore. She shook the design
plans at me and said, “So send them! Go ahead!” I said I will. She said, “No company is going
to be able to make a figurative idea literal.” So here’s the idea, and you tell me. You tell me if
this isn’t a marketable idea, as if there aren’t hundreds and thousands and millions like her, as if
they aren’t out every night on their own private Whimcycles, denying any kind of permanence
because it feels “stifling, like being hugged by a walrus,” or whatever other apparently clever
comments they want to make, like I’m that overweight anyway. Because, anyway, the world is
theirs, the Whimcyclers, wide open for their whole consumption, any decision their discretion,
the only real obligation being the obligation to change their minds as often as they can, to start
anew again and again and again, like change is not some kind of inevitability but some goddamn
duty.

10

6. The Whimcycle’s greatest function, which will be worked out in development and
manufacturing, is its ability to regenerate even when wrecked. If the Whimcycle is driven to
damage or even complete self-destruction, it will have the ability to be reconstructed and
reridden sometimes as soon as the very next day, another great big adventure begun. It will be
able to be reconstructed, in fact, as many times as the rider wishes.

Thank you for your consideration,

Tim Hannick

——————

Office of the General Counsel
United States Patent and Trademark Office
P.O. Box 15667
Arlington, VA 22215

Tim Hannick
Patent Applicant
8354 Grant Ave.
Mastens Corner, DE 19943

11
April 22, 1981

Mr. Hannick,

We thank you the chance to consider your three (3) recent patent applications (as well as for your
previous submissions for Robotic SpyCat, Memory-Gone, and the Cold-Heart Refrigerator). At this
time, after careful consideration, we have decided not to approve these patents. We do not feel these
patents constitute any useful process, machine, article of manufacture, or compositions of matters,
or any new useful improvement thereof. Furthermore, we wish you to realize the USPTO is not a
psychology clinic, Mr. Hannick.

We wish you future success.

The Office of the General Counsel


