First thing I did, I jacked out of there.
I moved
briskly to the car carrying the duffel bag slightly
unzipped, the ankle gun sliding around on top of the cash.
The little .32 mostly a charm now, like a rabbit's foot.
The feeling beginning to build you never have big enough
lead or powder beneath it.
I backed around slow but left the lot in a hurry,
taking the frontage road at fifty and slipped onto a county
road the first chance I got.
heading south.

It was a wide-open farm road

I punched it to seventy and let her pick up

speed and eased my hold on the steering wheel. Breathing
free once more and deeply at last.

Along with the rush had

come this need to focus and I ran the glass down and let the
breeze brush my hair and listened to the bugs in the fields
and felt the first humid wave of morning wash over.
brush, green everywhere.
drinking the earth.

Trees,

Ground fog crawling into gullies,

Small birds flying low and liking it.

Everything waking beneath a golden promise.
“Why not?

You might live another day yourself,” I

said.
Driving fast on a county road heading south--out of
sight yet parallel to the interstate.

The scenery flowing

by at speed, reminding me of all the fun I missed since
Charlie stepped off.

The drives in the country to remember.

The drives to nowhere letting the mind flow where it will,
rolling down a ribbon of stone.

Just remembering like it

was only yesterday that Charlie called to say hello.
good buddy.

My one

And Evelyn, my other pal and life was good and

we had all arrived and parked on High Street in the sun.
Only now it was someone else's spot at the curb and the
street no longer High Street, more like Die Street and you
never saw it coming.
“I saw it.

So here we are.”

So here we are--a fistful of air for cards.
peek, lucky.

Take a

You always did like games of chance.

See what

the wind blowed your way.
“Uh-uh.

I ain’t gonna play that game right now.”

Instead I drove on and fast but all the while I was
formulating.
next move.

If the game runs linear there is a priori a
Don’t matter its knight or pawn, just move the

piece and make it lethal.
around with these guys.

What it was, I’d got over dodging
What I wanted now was to act.

I pulled off the road the first chance I got, a
junction store that backed onto a field of alfalfa.

A

crossroads in farm America with two gas pumps rising from an
ocean of gravel and a swale of weeds sprung up around the
cement island.

Wherever there wasn't gravel there was

weeds.
Up two wooden steps and beside the door a solitary
cane-backed chair sat empty, inviting, lolling on the faded
gray wooden porch of the station.

It was leaned against a

pale red pop machine they’d plugged in out front to bait the
loungers--keep ’em from hanging around inside, messing with
the trade.
Where the front door yawned open a golden-haired dog
lay half in half out of the entry, asleep but for a single
eyebrow arched in a kind of house dog omniscience.
went the ear and again, just so.

Flick

Warm sun pooled nearby,

heating the gray boards, fixing to climb the gold dog's
belly.
Toward the fence line hoppers were clicking and
flitting about, jazzed up in a heat rising fast now with the
hour; to the near side a pair of cottonwoods were embraced
in a palsied trembling while below them a pay phone loitered
within the cool, languorous shade they cast. The pay phone
door hung open to a pensive gray receiver dangling on a
silver cord, pushed round its circle by a breeze.

While all

around there came this frenzy of bugs flying everywhere in
haste through the heat.

And a buzzing, buzzing, buzzing

sound.
I piled from the car and made my way to the pay phone.
For some odd reason I tucked the big 9mm into the waistband
of my jeans, the polo shirt pulled out for cover--Joe
College with a real hard one.
too, the Hollywood kind.

And I was wearing shades,

I looked like Steve McQueen but

was feeling more sort of pissy, like Genghis Khan.

What it

was, I was sick and tired of running from these guys.
I needed to make a call and dug a quarter quick from
the coin pocket, thumbed it into the slot and listened as it
trickled down--reminding me of an hourglass and the sand
whirring through and the course of our lives.

Like golden

thread wove into time, all of it vanishing into the fabric.
Just standing at a crossroads the whole gone world

spread away and no end to that and never would be and it
gave me a kind of flinch.

A shiver of remorse for all the

endings that never would, the beginnings that never had--so
that I told myself there could be no better time.

And with

that notion there came an almost dizzy feeling, but I went
ahead and dialed anyway and that saved me I guess--if
anything ever does.


