For two days, my parents sat under a glowing sky and waited for someone who would never
come. The hills would have been quiet, nature having a sixth sense about these things and the flames still
out of hearing. I imagine my mother sipping a drink in the red twilight, numbing herself. My father tracing
the ridges of her hand in arthritic circles. Please, I tell them, it’s time. But they don’t hear me. I see the
phone lines on the Eastern slopes wilting into coppery rivers.
On the third day, a state forestry worker named Rémy Desjardins hazarded the long climb up
Mount Rojo’s gravel track to inform my parents that the state of California suggested they evacuate.
I picture Rémy’s forehead shining with heat, charcoal thumbed across his face like war paint.
He’d noted an old Bronco in the driveway that looked well-maintained. My father seemingly in good
condition when he answered the door and a flash of strawberry curls from the kitchen doorjamb. My
mother’s voice asking who’d come to visit.
“How fast is it moving?” my father had asked.
“Forty acres or so, every day.”
Here I see Rémy’s grave look. A business-like nod from my father.
“We’ll be out as soon as we can.”
Rémy had backed carefully down my parent’s rutted lifeline, his radio crackling with news from
the mountain’s firebreak. There were others to warn, and it wasn’t until after the forestry department’s
defenses collapsed that he thought again about my parents and realized something hadn’t rung true.
Even thousands of miles away over the phone I could have told Rémy exactly what struck him as
off. The unnatural soft-spokenness of my father, a humbleness forced upon him. The permanent smile, as
if he was forever trying to remember how.
When I was ten I’d dyed my hair red from its natural brown and run through the dry pine air to let
it dry. At that time, we only came to the cottage twice a year. “Oh, but you don’t have red hair,” my mother
had said and shampooed my head three times. I sat in a tub of rose-colored water, the dye bleeding
down my back, while she shuffled her fingers against my scalp. “You shouldn’t try to be someone you’re
not.”
I barely knew my older sister before she ran away into the hills. She was a smudge of memory, a
foreign presence on the cottage’s mantel. I couldn’t tell you exactly when my parents built their insulation
to deal with her absence. I didn’t realize that when they started avoiding the phone it was to keep from
falling more deeply into themselves, I just answered and passed it to them. To me she was still there, still
a possibility. But by the time I was fourteen my parents were already old and crippled from seeing their
daughter’s face smudged across endless milk cartons. It wasn’t my face.
Rémy had found photo albums in the ruins. I asked him to stop telling me details. It was morbid.
He didn’t say anything for a long time, and I think I hurt his feelings. He’d failed too, and we both hurt.
The fires had picked up speed from the relentless Santa Ana winds on the fourth day. Trees
starved for water since February spontaneously burst aflame. He’d driven frantically at the end, the only
man available to climb through the hills and rescue the struggling residents. They’d mostly moved there to
avoid everyone, in cottages without electricity, running water. Whatever particular remove they needed
from the world, Rémy drug them out of it. Two firefighters died, arson investigations began. In his counts
at the evacuation station he remembered my father again and checked the latest aerial pictures of Mount
Rojo.
“Your dad just…he just wasn’t there,” Rémy said. “He stood in front of me, but I don’t know if he
ever heard me. I don’t know why they stayed.”
Rémy is a good man. He tells me that they might have made it out, that there were no bodies
found in the initial search, but here I don’t believe him. I imagine my parents staring into the black tree
line, the gravid air, the clouds of ash. I look into their hearts, see the stillness.
And it’s here, while they wait, that I lose them.

2


