Laura  left  when  everything  started  turning  to  paper.  Not  just  her  house,  the  
walls  billowing  and  transparent,  but  him  too:  a  two-­‐dimensional  man,  shallow  and  
whole  at  the  same  time.  There’s  only  so  much  time  a  girl  can  live  with  a  man  made  of  
paper  and  salt.  It  wasn’t  the  paper  itself  that  Laura  had  a  problem  with;  in  fact  there  
had  been  several  moments  in  her  life  when  she  thought  she  was  in  love  with  it.  The  
clean  sawdust  smell  of  a  new  page,  the  flaking  edges  of  an  old  book,  she  even  found  
pleasure  in  the  reluctant  way  it  rips  apart.  She  just  didn’t  want  to  turn  to  paper  
herself.  Didn’t  want  to  blow  away  or  burn.    
So  she  found  a  job  as  a  backcountry  caretaker  and  took  to  the  mountains.  
Daniel  knew  this  wasn’t  Laura  leaving.  It  was  Laura  pressing  pause.  Laura  finding  
solitude.  Laura  refusing  the  squeezing  pressure  of  time.  The  job  would  only  last  six  
months  –  the  turning  of  two  seasons.  She  would  fix  the  trails,  protect  the  moss,  teach  
the  clumsy  hikers,  walk  the  weaving  silence  of  the  forest.  And  so  Daniel  folded  into  
waiting  like  a  sleeping  plant  in  snow.  He  had  always  been  patient  until  it  hurt,  
confident  until  everyone  believed  him,  and  honest  until  it  seemed  as  though  only  he  
spoke  the  truth.  These  were  the  things  she  would  always  love  about  him  and  these  
were  the  things  that  Laura  needed  to  leave.    
He  was  the  one  who  had  gotten  her  the  job  in  the  lab  of  ornithology  the  year  
before.  Told  his  cousin’s  husband  that  she  was  looking  for  something  to  do  and  that  
she  had  majored  in  English  in  college,  knew  how  to  write.  The  cousin’s  husband  
worked  there:  a  bird  scientist.  Laura  was  silent  about  the  idea  at  first,  protective  of  
her  words.  She  had  never  paid  much  attention  to  birds  other  than  absently  
observing  a  broken  feeder  or  whistling  back  to  the  opening  chorus  of  Spring.  But  
when  she  said  this  to  him  in  her  settled  voice,  he  already  had  his  easy  response  
ready.    
“They  don’t  need  someone  who  knows  about  birds,  just  someone  to  go  
through  the  field  notes  and  the  old  guides  and  write  up  new  paragraphs  for  the  
online  database  or  something.  You’ll  do  fine.  Great,  even.”    
Laura  narrowed  her  eyes  at  the  page  she  was  reading  and  nodded  without  
looking  up.    
“They  want  you  to  start  Monday.  This’ll  be  good,  Chickadee.”  
She  looked  up  now,  startled  to  hear  the  name  he  hadn’t  called  her  in  months.  
Chickadee.  Tiny  flitting  bird.  She  hadn’t  heard  that  giddy  fever  in  his  voice  since  the  
beginning,  from  underneath  slippery  arms,  or  whispered  into  her  naked  back.  She  
had  preferred  him  then,  without  the  suffocating  sincerity  he  spoke  to  her  with  now.  
Before  love,  before  need,  before  words  like  arrows  shot  past  each  other  in  the  damp  
air  of  their  apartment.    
“This  will  be  good,”  she’d  repeated  slowly,  tasting  the  words  in  her  mouth.    
“Well,  don’t  you  think?  It’ll  get  you  out  of  the  house.  Get  you  writing.”    
“About  birds.”    
“About  something,  Laura.”    
And  with  the  sharp  edge  of  her  real  name,  she  turned  back  to  her  book,  and  
he  turned  and  left  the  room  without  even  the  comfort  of  anger  on  his  patient  face.  
That’s  the  trouble  with  a  paper  man.  Turn  him  sideways  and  he’ll  disappear.    

  

Chickadee  Dancing   3  
  
So  Laura  left.  Or  pressed  pause.  Turned  the  dial  down  to  static.  She  moved  
out  of  their  square  apartment  and  into  a  thick  canvas  tent  filled  with  stale  dust.  The  
walls  shone  orange  marmalade  in  the  morning  and  shadowed  scenes  danced  across  
them  at  night.  She  left  everything  she  owned  in  the  square  apartment,  except  for  her  
old  camera,  a  shoebox  filled  with  film,  two  crates  of  her  father’s  old  camping  gear  
and  one  of  Daniel’s  shirts.    She  bought  a  brand  new  backpack  graded  for  80  pounds  
and  filled  it  with  dry  food  and  books.  He  wasn’t  home  when  she  left  even  though  she  
told  him  she  could  wait  to  say  goodbye.    
The  tent  was  built  on  a  wooden  platform  2.4  miles  from  the  trailhead  and  0.8  
from  the  summit  of  the  mountain.  An  old  logging  road  crossed  the  trail  a  twenty-­‐
minute  hike  back  from  the  platform,  where  park  service  trucks  could  drop  off  
supplies  or  pick  up  injured  hikers.  Laura  thanked  the  ranger  and  told  him  she  could  
manage  on  her  own.  She  was  impatient  for  the  scalding  silence  of  being  alone  and  
terrified  that  his  enthusiasm  would  make  the  tent  something  other  than  hers.    
Inside  the  tent  there  was  one  thin  grey  mattress,  a  splintering  bookshelf,  a  
box  for  old  trail  journals,  a  box  of  new  trail  journals  and  a  broom.  Outside  the  
platform  was  a  picnic  table  chained  to  the  ground  and  a  tiny  stream  running  down  
the  mountain  on  the  other  side  of  the  trail.  A  little  farther  up  were  the  outhouse  and  
the  bear  box  where  she  would  keep  all  her  food.  Laura  stacked  her  books  into  
towers  on  the  floor,  rearranging  them  over  and  over:  from  biggest  to  smallest,  in  
rainbow  order,  the  ones  she  read  once  a  year  to  the  ones  she  had  yet  to  read,  the  
ones  that  she’d  written  poems  in  the  margins  of,  the  ones  Daniel  had  given  her,  the  

  

Chickadee  Dancing   4  
ones  that  her  father  had  told  her  to  read.  She  pulled  out  Daniel’s  shirt  and  breathed  
him  in,  the  smell  of  sex  and  the  white  light  of  winter  mornings.  She  almost  put  it  on,  
but  thought  better  of  it,  folded  it  and  placed  it  in  the  corner  of  the  top  shelf.    
  
*  *  *  
  
For  a  while  Laura  had  almost  enjoyed  working  at  the  lab,  writing  up  
descriptions  of  bird  behavior  she’d  never  even  seen.  She  had  liked  the  way  it  felt  to  
wake  up  with  Daniel  again,  to  watch  the  way  he  stretched  inward  instead  of  out,  
hugging  the  dreaming  comfort  in.  Once,  she  had  tried  to  imitate  it  –  to  see  if  that  way  
of  stretching  into  the  new  day  was  more  effective  –  but  she’d  had  to  spread  her  arms  
almost  immediately,  she’d  felt  crushed.  She  liked  how  Daniel  asked  about  her  day  
without  tender  fear  in  his  voice.    
She  had  even  started  to  enjoy  her  walk  to  work,  calm  and  linear,  among  the  
crumpled  grey  hydrangea  and  the  whispering  hiss  of  paper  skyscrapers  in  the  wind.  
But  the  bird  scientist’s  secretary  told  her  there  were  too  many  words  in  her  
descriptions  and  that  she  needed  to  tone  it  down  to  fact.  She’d  handed  Laura  a  page  
of  her  mistakes  from  the  scientist  and  smiled  blankly  at  her  before  going  back  to  her  
desk.    
  
Blackburnian  Warbler,  nesting:  The  Blackburnian  Warbler  builds  their  nest  with  
torn  twigs  and  plants,  lashing  the  pieces  together  with  the  glittering  threads  of  spider  

  

Chickadee  Dancing   5  
webs,  placed  at  the  tip  of  a  conifer  branch.  They  line  their  nest  with  lichen,  moss  and  
rotting  pine  needles.    
  
Northern  Saw-­‐whet  Owl:  This  arrogant  owl  has  a  small  creamy  speckled  body  and  a  
round  feline  face  with  piercing  yellow  eyes.  They  are  nocturnal  and  illusive,  but  fierce  
predators  and  loyal  mates.  They  are  mostly  silent,  but  at  night  their  high-­‐pitched  call  
pierces  the  evergreen  forests  they  inhabit.    
  
Black  Phoebe,  behavior:  Black  Phoebes  like  to  perch  on  low  hanging  branches  near  
bodies  of  water,  making  nervous  flights  to  capture  insects  for  food.  They  pump  their  
tuxedo  tails  like  they’re  treading  air,  screeching  their  chirping  warning  song  
incessantly.    
  
*  *  *  
  
The  forest  was  itching  in  May,  new  green  pushing  against  solid  ground.  Laura  
moved  into  her  tent  wearing  only  a  t-­‐shirt,  and  three  days  later  she  woke  up  to  fine  
snowflakes  drifting  slowly  towards  the  ground.  She  closed  her  eyes  upward  and  
imagined  it  was  sand  falling  from  the  sky,  imagined  the  neat  grit  of  it  getting  in  her  
nose  and  seeping  through  her  skin.  She  thought  of  how  if  she  had  turned  to  paper,  
the  grains  of  ice  would  stumble  down  the  flatness  of  her  back,  melting  instead  into  
the  warmth  of  the  soil  below.    

  

Chickadee  Dancing   6  
In  May,  Laura’s  job  was  to  clear  the  dead  from  the  trails.  She  would  wade  
through  the  melting  paths  and  drag  stones  or  logs  into  particularly  sodden  parts,  
reinforcing  the  collapsing  mesh  of  the  earth  in  spring.  In  the  shelters  and  trailheads  
she  placed  fresh  journals  for  the  hikers  to  brag  and  commiserate,  collecting  the  old  
ones.  Sometimes  she  would  leaf  through  and  read  some  of  the  entries  that  people  
crafted  in  their  tired  hands  and  feel  momentarily  sad  for  their  lost  days,  getting  
boxed  up  and  stored,  forgotten  the  second  she  was  done  reading.  She  sliced  her  
favorite  entries  from  the  journals  with  her  knife  and  buried  them  near  her  tent.  A  
graveyard  of  words.    
In  the  quiet  afternoons  when  she  was  done  with  her  work  and  too  wistful  to  
read,  she  would  sit  with  her  camera  and  pass  hours  with  the  sparrows  and  the  
finches.  She  learned  to  sit  silently,  waiting  again  and  again  after  each  zip  of  her  
camera’s  shutter  for  the  birds  to  forget  she  wasn’t  part  of  the  forest.  They  would  
glare  at  her  before  flying  away  and  pausing  nervously  nearby.  Soon,  she  was  only  
taking  pictures  of  birds,  filling  up  whole  rolls  of  film  trying  to  capture  one  bird  with  
her  lens.  She  felt  she  was  cleaning  new  parts  of  the  forest,  turning  the  buzzing  colors  
into  focus  with  her  twisting  hands.    
Laura  started  waking  up  earlier  and  earlier,  savoring  the  wandering  light  
right  before  the  sun  rose  over  the  mountains.  She’d  tear  the  pages  from  her  books  as  
she  read,  cutting  out  her  favorite  words  and  rearranging  them  into  scattered  poems,  
cemented  with  sap  against  the  blackened  inner  skin  of  bark.    She  would  press  her  
fingers  into  the  grooves  of  trees  and  silently  thank  them  for  being  whole.    

  

Chickadee  Dancing   7  
One  morning  in  the  middle  of  the  summer,  Laura  found  a  little  clearing  near  
the  summit  a  half-­‐mile  off  the  trail  where  the  trees  were  starting  to  fade,  and  a  
floating  cliff  appeared,  hidden  from  the  passing  hikers.  A  rocky  precipice  that  jutted  
from  the  mountain  like  a  shelf.  It  was  high  enough  in  altitude  that  the  trees  and  
shrubs  she  was  picking  her  way  through  looked  bare  and  foreign  compared  to  the  
thick  green  of  the  conifers  below.  The  bald  rock  of  the  clearing  extended  out  from  
itself  into  a  small  chair,  and  the  little  corners  of  it  sprouted  with  alpine  lichen  and  
the  feathered  moss  that  she  was  there  on  the  mountain  to  protect.  The  fragile  
fingers  of  moss  clung  to  the  rock,  happy  to  attach  their  rare  loyalty  in  exchange  for  
the  rocks  inert  assurance.    
For  Laura,  stepping  into  this  unknown  clearing  felt  like  breaking  into  some  
new  kind  of  truth.  The  clarity  in  this  tiny  sideways  summit  was  only  hers.  She  
started  climbing  to  the  clearing  every  morning  to  catch  the  sunrise,  and  for  the  first  
time  she  knew  how  much  more  precious  this  was  than  the  blinding  sunset.  The  
colors  were  cleaner,  the  rising  flakes  of  light  more  optimistic.    Every  morning  she  
bathed  in  the  soft  comfort  of  her  fresh  sun.  She  felt  the  vertical  line  of  her  spine  and  
pinched  the  flesh  of  her  wrist.  She  felt  the  truth  as  though  it  were  escaping  the  thin  
yellow  air  around  her  –  how  people  are  terrified  of  being  whole  and  fearless  when  
they  are  broken,  how  she  chose  to  be  lonely  when  she  was  surrounded  by  brilliant  
love.  
A  few  weeks  after  she  found  the  hidden  cliff,  Laura  noticed  a  pair  of  wood  
thrushes  building  their  nest  in  the  low  shrubs  twenty  feet  from  the  clearing.  It  was  
probably  the  second  nest  of  the  season,  the  busy  mother  bird  well  practiced  and  

  

Chickadee  Dancing   8  
ready.  She  heard  the  male  birds  fluting  call  days  before  she  saw  his  female  
companion  carrying  dead  leaves  to  the  nest  and  remembered  that  unlike  other  birds  
who  repeated  the  same  call  over  and  over  in  competition,  each  male  had  their  own  
song.  Wood  thrushes  have  a  y-­‐shaped  voice  box,  giving  them  two  notes  where  other  
songbirds  have  one  –  they  harmonize  alone.  She  also  remembered  that  when  the  
cowbirds  were  too  lazy  to  build  their  own  nests,  they  laid  their  eggs  in  her  carefully  
woven  one  and  she  would  take  them  in,  feeding  them  and  teaching  them  to  fly  
alongside  her  own  fledglings.    
Laura  imagined  what  it  would  be  like  to  be  a  female  wood  thrush.  To  choose  
her  mate  from  the  way  the  melody  they  sing  for  her  shivered  through  her  bones.    
She  would  choose  the  haunting  lullaby  of  the  loon,  monogamous  and  viciously  
protective.  She  imagined  what  it  would  be  like  to  be  a  bird  instead  of  human.  She  
thought  for  a  moment  she  would  be  the  pine  siskin,  nomadic  and  wild.  Or  the  
peregrine  falcon,  migrating  15,500  miles  a  year.  But  here’s  the  thing,  if  she  could  
really  be  a  bird,  any  bird,  she  would  probably  still  choose  the  chickadee.  They  stay  
where  they  love,  they  endure  the  turning  of  the  year,  hold  onto  sameness  through  
shocking  heat  and  blistering  cold.  Daniel  was  right  about  that,  at  least.    
  
*  *  *  
  
This  morning  was  the  same  as  every  other  morning  on  the  mountain.  Laura  
woke  in  the  grey  shadows  before  dawn  and  climbed  to  her  cliff  near  the  summit.  But  
this  time,  she  brought  with  her  the  shoebox  filled  with  reels  of  captured  birds.  As  

  

Chickadee  Dancing   9  
she  stepped  onto  the  clean  rock  from  the  forest,  the  sun  broke  through  the  earth,  
bleeding  yellow  over  the  trees.  Laura  took  a  canister  labeled  Cedar  Waxwing  in  Snow,  
pried  off  the  metal  cap  and  pulled  the  shiny  ribbon  of  film  into  the  light.  She  
imagined  the  pictures  sizzling  and  disappearing  in  the  sun.  She  did  it  over  and  over  
again,  May  –  Red  Pole,  Nesting  Wood  Thrush,  Chickadee  Dancing.  Every  bird  she’d  
captured,  she  now  let  free.  She  held  them  up  to  the  sunrise  and  let  them  take  flight  
with  the  sparking  burn  of  morning.  Lifted  them  up  and  let  them  migrate  into  the  sun.  
She’d  be  damned  if  they  turned  to  paper  too.    
She  sat  with  her  feet  dangling  in  the  air  above  the  mountain  and  shouted  
CHICK-­‐ADEE  as  loud  as  she  could.  The  echoes  that  returned  were  in  Daniel’s  voice.  
The  way  he  said  it  the  first  time,  full  of  laughter.  The  way  he  said  it  over  the  phone  
when  he  missed  her.  The  way  he  said  it  in  the  months  after  her  father  died.  The  way  
he  said  it  when  he  asked  her  to  marry  him.  The  ghost  of  it  in  the  months  since  she’d  
said  no.    
He  said  she  made  him  want  to  be  good,  that  she  made  him  think  and  made  
him  feel  the  difference  between  every  day  and  a  whole  lifetime.  He  said  these  things  
and  she  felt  them  all  back,  but  she  said  not  yet  and  then  she  left.  Sometimes  the  skies  
were  a  lucid  blue  canvas  for  Laura’s  sunrises,  mostly  they  weren’t.  But  every  day,  
there  were  little  birds  making  their  nests  of  mud  and  hair.  Every  day  the  alpine  
moss  was  stepped  on  and  stepped  around.  Every  day  the  echoes  returned  and  she  
was  loved.    
  

  


