When fire sirens go off in the Southern Hemisphere, the dogs don’t do anything, but all
the cats start meowing like crazy. When kids in the suburbs of Buenos Aires are riding
their bikes around in a circle, the same force that makes all toilets flush in the same
direction causes them to ride clockwise. And when people anywhere in South America
laugh, they don’t say “Ha ha ha” but “Hralah, hralah, hralah.”
These are the things I am pretending to have learned in Argentina at the Jorge
Louis Borges quincerocentennial conference I just came back from, commemorating
the one hundred fifteenth anniversary of his birth.
I’m telling this to my sister’s friends Kyle and Laura, on this ozone-sharp
afternoon, not because I want them to believe me, but because these stories, which
Helen knows so well from our high school days, are a way to gently needle her for
making fun of me about my water bottle crisis.
With lunch over, the four of us have drifted into Kyle and Laura’s kitchen. Their
power is still out from the storm. We’re standing around in the brightness of their large
windows, in the trailing end of Hurricane Miranda, drinking Tanqueray and tonic from
tumblers made of spun aluminum.
What I’m most glad about is that Helen and I can still tease each other, under
the circumstances. She’s friends with Kyle and Laura from a grief-counseling group

they were in two years ago, for parents who have lost a child to suicide. Given the way
the three of them seem to be able to relax together, it seems to have helped, if that’s the
right word. The only area in which it didn’t help was that the group wasn’t able to
prevent Helen and her husband from moving out of their house two months after it
happened. My friend Dianne, who now works in the psychology department at the
University of Minnesota, told me that when a couple moves out of their house in the
wake of losing a child, they have a much higher likelihood of getting divorced.
I’m sure that the storm is one of the reasons why we’re in such a good mood,
with its negative ions and low barometric pressure. When you go outside it doesn’t feel
all that windy, but the remaining storm still has enough force behind it that when you
turn your head into the slight drizzle, you can feel the drops stinging your face like
grains of sand.
This weekend’s visit, stopping over at Helen’s condo in Fall River on my way
home from the Buenos Aires conference, was the first time I’d seen her since Joseph’s
funeral. We were sort of on tiptoe with each other for the first day, but at least there
were BBC programs on TV, so we didn’t have to talk too much, which for us was
okay—though it’s the same unfortunate phenomenon that I’ve seen in more than one
faculty gathering, when everybody’s talking and having a good time, and then
somebody turns on a BBC program, and what was once a party is transformed into a
mostly silent session of well-educated entertainment.
I was supposed to fly back to Texas today, but Logan Airport is still closed, so
Helen is driving me to the Providence train station, by way of the long scenic route, and
then I’ll take the train to New York, and fly out tomorrow. We drove down through

3
Newport, and out to Lands End, where we sat in the car and watched the surf
slamming up against the rocks, then we continued over the reopened Narragansett Bay
bridges, and now up to Wickford, to Kyle and Laura’s house for lunch.
In the presence of parents who have gone through something I couldn’t imagine
going through, a water bottle crisis is a stupid thing to even be thinking about. I know
that, but I’m still angry. I had flown with that bottle, a sturdy plastic container
originally for orange juice, for many tens of thousands of miles. In Panama City, where I
had my connection, the gate staff of Copa Airlines had been instructed to put an extra
level of screening on all flights to the US, but they didn’t know what they were
supposed to be screening for, since we were already inside security. All they could
think of was to confiscate everybody’s water bottle, full or empty.
I guess I harped on the water bottle topic a little too much over lunch, but there
has been something about this day, the magnetized tingle of the storm’s atmosphere,
that seems to have made it easier to talk about all sorts of things.
“Get a life,” Helen said to me. Actually, a life where you get to fly to South
America on your employer’s budget is nothing to complain about. The dean of Arts and
Sciences is new, and he’s a biologist, so maybe he’s not familiar with literary
conferences, and so doesn’t know how easy it is to chair a panel discussion when you
don’t have to give a paper yourself.
The fact that we are drinking Tanqueray and tonic from spun aluminum
tumblers is one of the things that has made today perfect. I’m not a gin drinker, but I
can hear, and taste, even in the name “Tanqueray,” the sharpness of the wind, the click

4
of half-melted ice cubes against the hardness of aluminum, and I can taste a slight
acidic tingle of the depressurized weather system still gusting above our heads.
In Joan Didion’s great essay “Los Angeles Notebook,” she describes the opposite
extreme: how, when the hot air of the Santa Ana wind comes down from the Mojave
Desert, across Barstow and Victorville, and rushes down El Cajon Pass, the negative
ions get stripped from the O2 molecules, so that when the wind reaches sea level and
spreads out, it fills the whole Los Angeles Basin with its tense and prickly air.
Even the four colors on the outside of our tumblers are perfect: bright enamel
yellow for Helen, cranberry for Kyle, cobalt blue for Laura, and for me the best of all,
the iridescent green of a deer fly’s abdomen.
What this shade of green most reminds me of is something so far removed from
this moment that it was perfect in its own diametrically opposite way. This was back in
Lubbock, just after my friend Dianne had accepted a new job at the University of
Minnesota, much better than what she had at Texas Tech, and we knew without talking
about it that we didn’t love each other enough for her not to take it.
It seemed that the only thing we could do to stop being sad about Dianne’s
leaving was for us to go shopping for a new car, even though there was nothing wrong
with the one I had. I was all for getting another Honda, but she said that life is too short
to drive a Japanese car, and I couldn’t afford a BMW, so we found ourselves at Gene
Messer Ford, on a day so unforgivably hot and dry, and full of positive ions slamming in
from New Mexico, that I just now caught myself wanting to say that it was the hottest
day of the year, but really every hot day in that town feels like the hottest day of the

5
year. It was a day so far removed from today that I think I’m one of only a handful of
people who have experienced both ionic extremes.
The kitchen conversation has now worked its way around to the handmade
Argentinian shirt I was bragging about to Kyle and Laura. Helen says the colors are all
wrong for my face.
“Can’t you see?” she says. “There’s too much orange. You can only wear cool
colors.” She’s right, of course. She’s been decorating hotels and bank lobbies for years,
plus she’s the best-dressed person I know. The problem is that I can’t see it. When I
look in the mirror, all I see is my own big face, and to me it’s the same face, even if I’m
wearing purple with pink polka dots.
“I don’t need any colors. I’m a colorful guy already.”
“But it makes you look ten years older.”
While the appraiser was inspecting my trade-in (Good news! the word would
later come back), Dianne and I waited around in the cool of the showroom, looking at
the vehicles on display. She got up in the cab of a small pickup, a metallic green Ford
Ranger 4X4 with big knobby tires, the cab raised high above the chassis, and jacked
forward a few degrees. She sat there grinning in the showroom’s light, her compact
volleyball player’s body, and her olive-toned complexion, framed by the iridescence of
the truck’s paint job.
As I said, and as I’ve been puzzled about with my own shirts, I had never
understood what it means when people talk about colors going together, or what they
mean when they say that one color makes another color “pop.”

6
But there she was. Never has anybody looked so perfect in a vehicle. I hadn’t
even noticed before how green her eyes were. The shades of her face, as she sat behind
the wheel, with the driver’s window open, her smirk of amusement at how
simultaneously silly and beautiful this day was—all these things were part of the same
composition: her face, her green eyes, the paint job’s sparkly green flecking under the
hard clear coat, the cheerful blunt grille of the cab, raised at its racy angle—all I can say
is that the colors popped, so clearly that even I could see it, and I can still see it, even if I
can’t see anything else.
Another perfect thing about that day was that our ages were just the right
number of years apart that some people thought I was her husband and some people
thought I was her father. We didn’t have to wait around for the salesman; he knew that
we looked like a real couple looking at real cars, rather than just time-wasting lookieloos.
While Dianne grinned in the Ranger, an older man walked past, and said to her,
pointing to me, “Maybe your daddy’s going to buy you that truck.” If could have
afforded it I would have done it on the spot. I could have been her daddy and her
husband on the same day.
We drove around for the rest of the afternoon in my new Wild Strawberry
Focus hatchback, which they had talked me into leasing instead of buying, breathing in
the sweet leathery smell of the interior, in the chilly whisper of the air conditioner,
sheltered inside the car’s dark-smoked cop-killer windows, everything around us all of
a piece: the sky pressing down over the baking traffic on Clovis Road, the look of the
land when you get a few miles out of town—flat, but not flat enough to be dramatic,

7
rising slightly at the intersection of each mile-spaced section road, the high ground
often occupied either by a metal-sided nondenominational church, or by a cluster of
six-bedroom town houses, built very close together, as if for protection against Indians.
Coming back into town, we could feel how ridiculous everything outside our little
capsule was: the percussive growl of exhaust pipes, the caustic air, the bumper-sticker
Baptists, all the people who listen to Christian rock stations and who have never had
occasion, within the boundaries of their Christ-centered world, to even learn that
Buddy Holly was born here; of course it’s a horrible town, a city whose NPR station is
located so far down at the bottom of the FM spectrum that if an older car with nonsolid-state ignition pulls up next to you, you can hear the ticking of static pulses from
the rotor hitting the contact points inside the distributor.
We sat there, cool in the traffic. Everything was funny, even if we couldn’t think
of any more jokes about dumb Texans.
We made each other laugh, is the short of it. Garrison Keillor said in one of his
monologues that you should marry the person who makes you laugh. Once when we
were fooling around in my apartment with no clothes on, I pressed the TV remote
against my throat and spoke in the buzzing monotone of a prosthetic larynx. She had to
run to the bathroom with pee squirting out between her legs. She could do an imitation
of the blonde in blonde jokes, tossing her hair back and forth, her mouth frozen open in
a spaced-out smile. There is no girl in the world who is actually like that, but if there
were, Dianne had her movements down perfectly. The fact that we didn’t love each
other might have been a problem, but people have worked around worse issues than
that.

8
The problem with things being perfect is that they’re perfect to no purpose:
Dianne smirking in the driver’s seat, Tanqueray and tonic in a hurricane, the perfect,
platonic, dumb blonde, tossing her hair back and forth, happy that she finished a jigsaw
puzzle in two weeks whose box said “3 TO 5 YEARS.”
Helen and I have to go pretty soon, to get to the Amtrak station without
worrying about time.
“Before you go,” Kyle says. “I want you to see the view from behind the house.”
He refills everybody’s drink, Helen taking just tonic, for the drive. We go out the
back door, just as we hear the buzzing shudder of the power coming back on. From an
open spot at the back of their yard, we can look down across miles of woods and
houses. The rain is down to a few stinging pinpoints. Everything is in black and white,
and motionless, except for the restless branches around us. We can see the sort of
furrow that the Post Road makes in the trees, even though we can’t see the actual road.
Beyond, we can look out over Narragansett Bay, its gray water featureless and flat, and
see in the distance the Jamestown Bridge that we just came over.
Every time I see a view like this, I get a twinge of wishing I could stay here in the
East, and never have to go back to Texas again. But then it wears off. Coming home, it’s
relaxing to know where everything is in my kitchen. My cat is waiting for me to come
spring him out of jail. It’s true that Lubbock is a spiritual sewer, but then I get up in the
morning, I get dressed, I have exactly what I want for breakfast, and drive to a job I
don’t hate, through a spiritual sewer that that’s actually been pretty good to me, in a
Wild Strawberry Focus whose warranty covers even oil changes, while Pandora spins
tunes I would have chosen myself if I’d thought of them; to an office full of people I get

9
along with, most of whom aren’t even all that PC. If it were any of my business to find
them falling short in any respect, it would be that, academically speaking, they don’t
put their money where their mouth is. The department’s Hemingway specialist has
never been to a bullfight. The woman whose most popular course is “Representations
of Class in Contemporary Culture” has never been on a Greyhound bus. The guy in the
office next to me gave a paper at MLA in Chicago, called “Interrogating Liminal Space in
the Fictions of Rachel Phillips Gallivander,” but I know that when he took the Blue Line
back to O’Hare, and passed through the series of hallways and automatic doors that
connect the train platform to the airline departures area, it did not occur to him that he
was passing through some of the most liminal space in the world.
Besides, it’s too easy to laugh at Lubbock, just the name of it: a big fat guy ready
to pull out a gun and cut your throat. Actually, even the people who want to kill you are
mostly nice. Maybe they don’t even want to kill you. The checkers at United
Supermarkets always ask me if I found everything I was looking for. The only problem
is that if I ever said no, they wouldn’t know what to do.
We stand there. I’m ready to get going up to Providence, so that I can catch the
right train and get to New York in time to have a nice dinner somewhere. It’s weird
that we’re standing so still, and nobody is saying anything, not even how dramatic the
view is, as if we’re waiting for somebody to bring up a subject that they’re not quite
ready to talk about.
All I can think to do, to break the silence, so we can get out of here, is to raise my
aluminum cup and say, “A toast: to good friends, beautiful views, and bad weather.”

10
Awkwardly we move closer together, until we are close enough to clink our tumblers
against each of the others.
Then Helen says, “To Joseph.” Nothing moves. We stand still with our drinks
halfway raised.
“To Stephanie,” Laura says, and I can hear her voice crack. They fall into a threeway hug.

The End


