“New neighbors,” said my husband Hank, “and he looks like a frog.”
“Hank,” I said. “What kind of thing is that to say?”
“Max,” said the new neighbor the next day when I took the dog out after walk,
and Hank was right. Our new neighbor Max looked like a frog-eyed gargoyle on an
institutional cornice. It was as if he had been hanging out at the gate to tell me that he had
just won the state lottery with a two-dollar ticket. I had difficulty not staring at his teeth
which were shiny and the size and shape of computer keys.
“Max and Georgette,” he said nodding at the woman on the porch. Georgette had
a face that had a tragic gecko look.
“Gee,” she said, “call me Gee.”
So our new neighbors, Max and Gee. Saturday I took over my seed cake on one of
my good green plates and formally welcomed them to the neighborhood. Max, it seems,
was an MIT computer geek and Gee was an artist.
They had a cat, Asimov, a wiry calico.
They had a child too. Not really a child. More like a mannequin, life-sized and
armless. He sat in the living room on an armature. He was the size of a three-year-old
and had electrodes attached to his ear, his scalp, his chest and his tiny little penis, which
was a No. 2 pencil sharpened down to its eraser. The electrodes were connected to wires
wrapped around his body at odd angles and ended in plugs. In the middle of the little
boy’s forehead was a spider of sorts. A tarantella made of black pipe cleaners and a
hairball the size of my fist.

The spider seemed fake, but the child seemed oddly real even though it was just
plaster. “Meet Isaac,” Gee said formally when she caught me looking over her shoulder.
She seemed to expect me to shake hands with the little fellow, but, of course, I couldn’t
because he had no arms, just large keyholes in the shoulder where his limbs would fit. I
wondered if I should pick him up and hug him. “I made the spider from the hair of my
old dog Frank,” said Gee. “I’d been saving it since I was sixteen—couldn’t decide what
else to do with it.” She took the cake. They were still unpacking so I left.

For the next three or four weeks, we didn’t see them. Their gray Hondas wheeled
in and out at like mechanical rats. By the time I waved, they were inside. “Not very
sociable,” I said to Hank.

Then I got a picture postcard with Isaac, the child-mannequin on it. It read: “Dear
Betts, for weeks, I’ve tried to think of a proper way to thank you for the seedcake you
brought us on the occasion of our leaving MIT and coming here to Easton. It was the
oddest thing. When I looked at it the next morning, it seemed to have a face which looked
like Isaac. I couldn’t eat it, seemed like cannibalism. So I put it out back. You simply
must come see it. It’s grown a beard. Gee.”
I went over, but no one answered the door. I heard weird wails though. It
sounded like Asimov the calico cat had gone into heat.
When Hank got home from the Crayola Factory, I showed him the postcard.
Hank’s a Crayola chemist.

No. 2 Pencil 3
“Let me look at that picture,” said Hank, reaching for a beer instead. “Weird kid,
no arms. She’s probably trying to be neighborly.”

So I decided to go over again. I made Hank come with me. When we got to the
door, we could hear Asimov in heat. No, the howls seemed more like a child screaming. I
wondered if anyone could hear our knocking, but finally Gee came to the door.
“Oh, isn’t that awful,” she said. “Max is trying to shut him up, but he just keeps
crying.”
“Well,” said Hank, staring into the living room at Max down on his knees fiddling
with Isaac’s wires, “when we had babies, we just unplugged them.”
“We did not,” I said, jabbing him in the shoulder, but Gee didn’t seem to notice.
Hank handed her the six-pack he had grabbed on the way out of the door, and she
directed us through the house to the backyard where four plastic chairs looked like
Jackson Pollack had attacked them with melted crayons. “My kind of chair,” said Hank.
We sat watching Asimov slinking through the grass growing from a green plate
while Gee went to get Max who evidently was not the social type.
“That’s odd,” I said, “it looks like the green plate I brought the seed cake on. Is
that the beard she’s talking about?”
“Dunno,” said Hank. “It’s the cat that seems odd to me—meowing like that.”
“Him’s a her,” I said. “Asimov’s a calico. All calicos are female—and she must
have some Siamese with a howl like that.”
“Maybe the kid’s in heat too,” said Hank.

No. 2 Pencil 4
The baby was still yowling in the background when Max appeared. “We’re
having a hell of a time with Isaac,” he said, gulping the beer Hank handed him. “For a
whole week now, I’ve been trying to hook up a motion sensor so that Isaac cries when the
cat comes near him. Gee wants Isaac to be allergic to cats, but the problem is that instead
of sneezing, he cries. A kid goes by on a skateboard, he cries. A car passes. He cries.
Someone comes to the door. He cries. Gee got so upset when she pulled into the garage
yesterday; she could hear him before she got out of the car. She says I should have made
him so he cries like that, but I can’t shut him up. That’s what I have been trying to do.
His circuits are so small, it’s so difficult.”
“Oh, I know. It happened to us when our Jenny was eleven months old. She got a
bladder infection, but she was too small for a catheter,” I said.
Isaac was whimpering now, but he hadn’t stopped.
“We used to spank Jenny when she bawled like that,” Hank said. “Not hard. Just a
quick slap when she kept whining and we thought we would go crazy.”
Max and Gee looked at Hank as if he had said something awful.
“Oh, we couldn’t hit Isaac, “ said Gee. “It’s so traumatic for a child, and with his
delicate constitution. . . .”
“You know anything about computers,” Max asked Hank.
“A little—e-mail, e-bay, e-stuff. User not abuser, if you know the distinction. Our
son Henry’s the hacker.”
Before Hank could launch into his Hank Junior stories, Max said, “Well, I started
using a computer before I could talk. I thought I’d have no problem having a child, but
Isaac has become such a problem. I suspect I made a wrong decision when I decided to

No. 2 Pencil 5
go Intel. Anyway, I thought it would be easier if Isaac were autistic. That’s what I said to
Gee. An autistic kid is a lot more predictable than a kid with allergies. You know what an
autistic kid wants. You just have to program him, and he’s happy doing the same old
thing over and over. You can leave him home on vacations, and he won’t notice you’re
not there.”
“But allergies,” Max continued, “if Isaac has allergies, you never know what will
happen when we take him to a Chinese restaurant. They may say that they are not using
peanut oil, and the next thing you know, Isaac is lying on the floor in anaphylactic
shock.”
“But, Max,” said Gee, “an autistic kid isn’t a real person He’s a PC. So he can sit
down and play Rachmaninoff without a mistake after he has heard it once, but there is
something so predictable about it. I want a real child.”
“Gee, I hear what you’re saying. It’s just that I am having one hell of a time with
the kind of kid we’ve made. He’s enraged by everything. It started out with that allergy to
the cat that made him sneeze his arms off, and now he howls at everything that moves.
I’m ready to wring his goddam neck.”
“Max, Isaac can hear you.”
“How many times do I have to tell you that he won’t say goddam. There’s a
firewall for objectionable language.”
“Oh, Max, I told you not to program that in. I want a real child, one that might
say goddam once in a while and you have to wash out his mouth. I certainly don’t want
an autistic child who can’t say goddam,” said Gee. And then to us, “Max is having a little
trouble getting Isaac sorted out emotionally.”

No. 2 Pencil 6
“We’ll be a lot better off without all this emo-stuff,” said Max. “I would have
been perfectly happy with an idiot savant. I could have programmed an idiot savant . . .
easy.”
“Max, we’ve been through this a thousand times,” said Gee. “You’re the scientist
and I’m the artist. You design the inside and I the out, but that doesn’t mean I don’t have
some say about the inside.”
Max stomped back in the house.
Gee turned to me. “I mean Max, I love the man, but he probably is a bit autistic
himself. The way he gets so upset when his programming doesn’t quite work out. Max
just doesn’t get why I want the kid to have an emotional life. Max doesn’t have normal
emotions. He’s a good enough lover, but he doesn’t have normal emotions. Like now.
Just walking back in the house without saying anything. No social graces. No ‘excuse
me.’ That’s why he doesn’t think Isaac needs emotions. Max doesn’t think like Isaac.
But Isaac is only three, and he has to stop howling so that he can talk.”
“I didn’t know Isaac could talk,” I said.
“Well, that’s the thing,” said Gee. “He doesn’t talk around strangers.”
“I’m a bit confused,” said Hank.
Hank likes to play the confused skeptic. “I thought Max was programming Isaac
to be allergic to cats, or at least to cry when he sensed a cat was in the vicinity. I thought
it was going to be like one of those Hoot Owls you can buy in a Lillian Carter catalogue,
one that senses motion—it swivels its head and hoots if a squirrel or a crow comes in the
vicinity.”
“Yes, that’s what Max was going to do,” said Gee.

No. 2 Pencil 7
“But now you’re saying that Isaac is really more like an autistic child, not wanting
anything to move. Isn’t that what an autistic child is, one of those don’t-move- my-cheese
kids.”
“Oh, my god,” said Gee. “You’re right. That’s it. Max must have intentionally
mis-wired him. I wanted allergy, and he wanted autism. Max, come here.”
Max ambled back out. “Max, you wired Isaac for autism instead of allergy.”
“Exactly,” said Max.
“What?” said Gee.
“Exactly,” said Max. “That’s what seems to have happened.”
“What do you mean seems to have happened? You did it on purpose.”
“No,” said Max. “It just happened, and I am having a hell of time shutting it
down.”
“I understand,” said Hank, “You started out wiring Isaac so that he would act like
a kid with a simple cat allergy, but you ended up with a kid that cries all the time. He’s
like one of those plastic dog sensors you put on your porch that barks anytime anything
goes by.”
“Max, we don’t want a kid with autism. We want a kid who had a minor defect,
like a goose down allergy, and now we have got this thing with major problems. We can’t
have him.”
“But Gee,” said Max, “you’re the one that’s always going on about how awful it
is, all of those sonograms and all those women in India and China and Korea aborting
their girls.”

No. 2 Pencil 8
“Max, this is different. Isaac is not a girl. If Isaac had Downs, we’d abort him. If
he had sickle-cell anemia, we’d abort him. If he had schizophrenia, we’d abort him.
Autism is serious. It’s really serious. If all he is going to do is scream any time anything
comes near, we have to abort him.”
I raised my eyebrow at Hank. Time for us to get out of here. Hank wasn’t looking
at me. He wanted to stay.
“Well,” Hank says, in his one-parent-to-another mode, “some kids are screamers
and some aren’t. Now our Hank Junior kept us awake for the first year of his little life.
Screamed all night. Didn’t sleep through until he was two. I was just kidding about the
unplugging bit. It is pretty awful, but I think you just have to accept what’s given you.
Like Emma’s mother used to tell us, God wouldn’t have given you Henry Junior if he
didn’t think you could handle him.”
“We don’t acknowledge a higher being,” said Max.
“Actually, neither do we,” I said. “But at the time that Henry Junior didn’t give us
a night of sleep, it was tempting.”
“We don’t even accept a Prime Mover,” said Gee.
“Hey,” said Hank, “it’s fine with us. Believe what you want but no need to
proselytize. But it’s about time for me to become the Prime Mower and get the grass
mowed.”
“Oh, don’t leave,” said Gee. “We get into this argument every day. It’s not really
an argument. Anyway, you have to see the beard before you go.” She walked over to the
corner of the garden and lifted up my green plate with the grass growing from it.

No. 2 Pencil 9
“See,” she said, “can you believe? I just looked down at the cake when you left,
and there was little Isaac’s face in it. The next day he looked a bit older, and by the third
day he was sprouting grass. Just like a beard. Well, as I said, I can’t eat it that. So I put it
out back. You can’t see the face anymore, but I water it everyday. Asimov seems to think
it is a girl cat. He sings to it.”
“Maybe I shouldn’t tell you,” I said, “but Asimov is definitely a girl. And she’s is
in heat. That’s why she is yowling. All calicos are females.”
“Are you sure?” said Gee.
“About as sure as I am that . . . that random chance didn’t make her a male,” I
said.
“It’s okay,” said Hank. “I thought Asimov was male too.”
“Oh, my god,” said Gee. “Max, Max, what if Isaac is a female too.”
“Can’t be,” said Max. “He has a penis. You made him a penis with that little
pencil.”
“I did, but ..,” said Gee, “I just saw it on the Health channel last night. There’s
this disease. CAH. Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia. The clitoris is enlarged until it is the
size of a penis. It makes people think they have a boy when they really have a girl.”
“Isaac is definitely a boy,” said Max. “Boys are much more likely to be autistic.
With the exception of girls like Temple Grandin, it’s boys that are autistic. Maybe that’s
the problem. I didn’t take into consideration that Isaac was a boy. I figured, boy, girl—
there shouldn’t be any difference to the processor.”
“But there is,” said Gee. “Even a visual artist like me knows there is a difference
in the wiring. No wonder he just keeps crying. You are so stupid.” And she began to cry.

No. 2 Pencil 10
“Hormones,” said Max, winking at Hank.
“Isaac doesn’t have hormones,” said Gee.
I raised my eyebrows again, and Hank finally looked at me and nodded it was
time to go: “Well, we really do have to get to the yard work if we want get it done before
the rain comes, prime the mover, and miles to mow before I sleep.”
“Good to chat with you,” I said.
“Thanks for coming,” said Gee. She was standing with her back to us. She was
standing on the green plate in the middle of the seedcake beard. I didn’t ask her if I could
have it back.

We didn’t see much of them for the next several months, just the Hondas
skittering in and out. Eventually, we couldn’t hear the crying either–even when we left
our windows open at night. “Well,” said Hank, rolling over onto me, “sounds like Max
figured out how to cut the circuits.”
“Thank the God they don’t acknowledge,” I said. “I’ve always had trouble
making love when a kid is screaming. They probably do too.”
One morning in August, we noticed a moving van outside their house. Out came
all sorts of furniture and gadgets we hadn’t noticed were there. A six-pencil sharpener?
A one-hamburger meat grinder? Of course, Max and Gee didn’t say goodbye. That
afternoon we noticed Isaac upside down in the garbage can on the curb.
“Maybe we should adopt him,” I said to Hank.
“I don’t think I want to go through that again,” said Hank and made an amphibian
grimace.

No. 2 Pencil 11
“Go through what?”
Hank did a double grimace. “You know, computer geek.”
“Junior wasn’t a computer.”
“Hmmm,” said Hank.
“Oh well,” I said, “must just be that now or never, getting close to menopause
feeling. But I am going over to their backyard to see if I can find my green plate. Must be
somewhere under that grassy beard,” and I smiled a big smiley-face icon smile, or at least
as big as my mouth could make.


