April  sat  in  the  passenger  seat  and  stabbed  at  the  chunky  radio  buttons,  switching  between  two  top  
forty  stations,  both  blaring  commercials,  until  she  heard  the  first  few  bars  of  Stevie  Wonder’s  Signed,  
Sealed,  Delivered.    
June  approved  the  song  with  a  tip  of  her  chin.    
For  April  to  be  sitting  in  the  front  seat  of  the  family’s  new  Delta  88,  with  her  older  sister  June,  a  
newly  minted  driver,  at  the  wheel  was  a  real  promotion.  Usually  she  was  relegated  to  sit  alone  in  the  
back,  unable  to  hear  anything,  while  her  mother  and  June  nodded  and  chatted  in  pantomime.  She’d  
wedge  her  head  between  them  and  say  “What?  What’d  you  say?”  But  they  never  repeated  themselves,  
they  just  took  turns  scolding  her,  “April,  sit  back!”    
But  on  this  day,  April  squirmed  happily  in  the  passenger  seat,  the  whole  wide  world  opening  in  front  
of  her.    
“Here  I  am  baby.  Signed,  sealed,  delivered—I’m  yours!”  April  shouted  out  the  window  and  June  
laughed.  
April  bent  her  arm  and  rested  it  on  the  door  and  let  her  hand  rise  and  dip  in  the  rushing  air.  She  had  
to  stretch  her  arm  up  to  reach  the  window  ledge,  which  caused  a  cool  breeze  to  blow  up  her  t-­‐shirt  
sleeve  and  freeze  her  armpit.    
Regardless,  she  persisted  in  her  pose  and  hoped  someone  from  school  would  see  her,  singing,  
hanging  her  arm  out  the  window,  riding  shotgun  with  her  cool,  older  sister  at  the  wheel.  She  was  going  
to  be  12  in  less  than  a  week  and  lately  how  people  saw  her,  what  people  thought  of  her  mattered  more  
than  any  stupid,  old,  icy  armpit.      
April  had  big  ideas  about  being  12.  Twelve  was  solidly  in  the  double  digits,  not  like  10,  which  was  
practically  the  same  as  9,  or  11,  which  was  double  digits,  but  just  barely.  Twelve  was  respectable,  
almost  13,  a  teenager  for  goodness  sakes.      
April  also  had  a  secret-­‐super-­‐special-­‐calculation  that  would  go  into  effect  the  day  she  turned  twelve.  
It  was  secret  because  she  knew  in  her  heart  it  was  childish;  and  it  was  ‘super  special’  because  those  
words  gave  it  the  proper  weight,  at  least  to  her  when  she  had  devised  the  formula  in  the  years  after  her  
father  died.      
    
On  the  morning  of  April’s  sixth  birthday  they  were  all  rushing  around  getting  ready  for  the  party.  Her  
mother  was  icing  the  cake,  her  father  was  giving  the  lawn  a  quick  cut  and  April  and  June  were  
squabbling  over  the  paper  party  hats.  June  waved  a  gold,  crown-­‐shaped  hat  above  her  head  while  April  
leapt  at  the  gleaming  ring  and  shrieked:  “It’s  my  birthday!”    
“Quiet,  you  magpies!”  their  mother  shouted.  “I  can’t  hear  myself  think.”  
And  that’s  when  they  heard  the  sound  of  the  lawnmower  engine  change  from  a  muffled,  grass-­‐
clogged  racket  to  an  open  throated  roar  as  it  ran,  unmanned,  across  the  driveway  and  then  hit  a  tree.  
When  her  mother  pulled  back  the  curtains,  April  saw  him  lying  in  the  fresh-­‐cut  grass,  flat  out  like  a  
starfish  on  a  bright  green  sea.  
The  ambulance  arrived  and,  just  seconds  later,  so  did  the  pony  ride  man.  That’s  what  April  
remembered  from  that  day—  the  pony  ride  man  and  his  skinny  boy  getting  out  of  their  truck  to  gape  at  
the  paramedics  kneeling  by  a  prone  figure.  She  remembered  that,  and  the  pony’s  big,  lustrous,  black  
eye  through  the  wire  mesh  in  the  trailer.  She  wondered  what  color  the  pony  was  and  then  felt  bad  for  
wondering  such  a  thing,  the  color  of  a  pony,  at  such  a  time.  But  it  wasn’t  like  she  expected  the  party  
would  go  on,  that  the  pony  would  be  backed  out  of  the  trailer,  fitted  with  a  saddled  and  that  the  yard  
  

2  

Magpies  
would  fill  with  kids  all  clamoring  for  their  turn  to  ride  the  pony.  She  just  wanted  to  know;  was  the  pony  
white  or  brown  or  black,  was  it  spotted  or  all  one  color?    
They  put  her  father  in  the  ambulance  and  one  of  the  neighborhood  men  yelled  at  the  pony  ride  man  
to  back  his    “Goddamn  truck”  down  the  driveway;  they  argued  and  the  neighbor  shoved  some  money  at  
the  man.  The  pony  truck  and  trailer  inched  down  the  drive,  followed  closely  by  the  ambulance  and  then  
her  mother  in  the  family  car.  April  and  June  stood  on  the  front  yard  staring  at  the  empty  drive  for  a  long  
while.  Later,  June  fended  off  the  neighbor  ladies  who  came  by  and  tried  to  push  in  and  make  them  
supper.  That  night  they  ate  April’s  birthday  cake  for  dinner,  which  made  them  both  feel  a  little  sick.  In  
the  morning,  their  mother,  dazed  and  exhausted,  was  sitting  in  the  kitchen,  smoking,  alone.    
April  was  6,  exactly  6,  the  day  her  father  died.      
And  next  week,  on  her  12th  birthday,  it  would  be  six  years  to  the  very  day,  which  meant  she  had  
lived  six  years  with  a  father,  and  soon  six  years  without  a  father.  Each  year  without  him  had  gotten  a  
little  bit  better,  a  little  bit  less  heavy  with  sadness.  So,  according  to  her  secret-­‐super-­‐special-­‐calculation,  
this  year  on  her  birthday  the  balance  would  tip  and  “thunk,”  like  a  seesaw  plank  hitting  the  hard  packed  
earth,  it  would  be  over.  She  could  climb  off,  get  on  with  her  life,  be  happy  again.  
“Okay,  here’s  the  list,”  June  said,  digging  a  folded  piece  of  white  lined  paper  from  her  back  pocket.  
“Sleeping  bag,”  April  read.  “Mess  kit,  flashlight,  canteen,  poncho,  swim  suit—    
“I  got  a  swim  suit,”  June  said.  “See  the  checkmark?  Just  read  the  ones  without  checks.”  
“Mosquito  repellent,  water  shoes—“  
“I  got  my  old  tennis  shoes,  put  a  check  by  that,”  June  said.    
April  carefully  spread  the  paper  on  her  leg  and  put  a  faint  check  in  pencil  next  to  ‘water  shoes.’    
“Well,  it  looks  like  it’s  the  Army  Surplus  store  for  us,”  June  said.  “Don’t  you  think?”  

  

3  

Magpies  
“I  do,”  April  said,  as  though  the  Army  Surplus  store  wasn’t  their  destination  all  along,  as  though  the  
two  of  them  had  just  spontaneously  discussed  and  agreed  on  a  course  of  action.  June  had  lately  been  in  
a  rare  mood  of  treating  April  as  an  equal,  a  confidante,  as  someone  she  actually  liked  rather  than  an  
irritant,  someone  to  ‘tsk’  at  and  roll  her  eyes  about.  
The  Army  Surplus  store  was  only  three  miles  away,  just  down  the  hill,  in  Sharpsburg.  Sharpsburg  was  
a  small  river  town  that  had  been  stepped  over,  like  a  puddle,  by  the  newly  affluent  suburbanites,  who  
had  built  their  colonial  houses  on  ¼  acre  lots,  added  flagstone  patios  and  barbeques,  and  then  dubbed  
their  new  neighborhood  Buckingham.  Each  weekday  they  commuted  from  Buckingham  on  an  elevated  
bypass,  high  above  Sharpsburg,  to  their  jobs  in  downtown  Pittsburgh.  As  suburban  girls,  April  and  June  
rarely  went  into  Sharpsburg,  mostly  because  there  wasn’t  much  there,  but  also  because  there  was  a  
subtle  friction  between  citizens  of  Sharpsburg  and  the  denizens  of  Buckingham.  The  townspeople  
thought  that  ‘those  suburban  people’  thought  that  they  were  better  than  everybody  else.  And  they  
were  right,  they  did.    
June  with  her  new  license  had  been  free  to  drive  on  Buckingham’s  curvy  two  lanes  roads,  but  this  
was  her  first  trip  out  of  the  leafy  confines  of  the  suburbs  and  into  the  town.  Admittedly,  Sharpsburg  was  
a  small,  sleepy  place  with  only  two  traffic  lights  and  one  main  street,  which  was  even  actually  called  
Main  Street,  but  still.    
When  June  came  to  the  first  stop  sign  she  wasn’t  absolutely  sure  that  she  had  arrived  first,  so  she  
sat  and  waited  for  the  oncoming  car  to  move.  It  was  a  standoff,  both  cars  sat  immobile  for  too  long,  
then,  when  the  car  behind  June  honked,  she  lurched  forward  at  precisely  the  same  moment  as  the  
opposing  car.  June  slammed  on  the  brakes;  April  was  thrown  forward,  catching  herself  on  dash.  The  car  
behind  them  honked  again,  this  time  a  long,  irritated  blast.      
“Oh,  fuck  that  guy,”  June  said  and  moved  through  the  intersection.  
  

4  

Magpies  
April’s  eyebrows  shot  up  at  the  obscenity.  She  blushed.  She’d  recently  learnt  what  ‘it’  meant  and  
found  it  deeply  embarrassing.    But  she  loved  that  June  would  talk  that  way  in  front  of  her,  use  a  word  
like  that  as  though  April  was  just  as  worldly  and  fierce  as  her  sister.      
‘Flinty’  that’s  what  their  mother  called  June.  When  April  asked  what  ‘flinty’  meant  her  mother  said:  
“Flint’s  a  rock,  when  you  hit  it,  sparks  fly.  That’s  June  all  over.”    
After  a  long  pause  April  said:  “I’m  Play-­‐Doh…ey.”  
On  Main  Street  they  cruised  past  the  Army  Surplus  store  and  peered  in.  A  dingy  open  sign  hung  on  a  
piece  of  cord.  They  circled  the  block  and  were  driving  by  again  when  a  car  pulled  out  of  a  spot  just  up  
ahead.    
June  pulled  up  parallel  to  the  car  in  front  of  the  empty  spot  and  turned  on  her  blinker.    
“Here  we  go,”  she  said  turning  in  her  seat,  sitting  as  tall  as  she  could  and  craning  to  see  the  end  of  
the  car.    
April  stuck  her  head  out  the  passenger  window.  
“Watch  the  front  part,  up  there,”  June  said.    
She  hit  the  gas  a  little  too  hard  the  car  lurched  back  and  up  onto  the  sidewalk.    
“Oops,”  she  said  and  pulled  out  into  the  street  without  looking.  A  car  swerved  around  them  and  
honked.    
Back  in  position,  parallel  to  the  spot,  she  turned  the  wheel  more  sharply  and  applied  the  gas  gently;  
the  car  eased  back  into  the  space.  She  pulled  forward  and  the  boat  of  a  car  was  docked.  
“That  was  really  good,  June!”  
June  gave  April  some  dimes  to  put  in  the  meter.  April  was  still  young  enough  to  enjoy  shoving  the  
coins  into  the  slot,  hearing  the  muffled  chink  as  they  fell  and  turning  the  dial.  The  red  violation  disk  
disappeared  and  a  black  arrow  popped  up.    
  

5  

Magpies  
Outside  the  Army  Surplus  store  was  a  torpedo  painted  bright  yellow  with  “Malinowski’s  Army  
Surplus,  Main  Street,  Sharpsburg,  PA”  in  thick  blue  paint.  April  ran  her  hand  along  the  cigar-­‐shaped  
torpedo  and  felt  the  bumps  from  the  blue  paint,  automatically  counting  the  letters.    
“44,”  she  whispered.  
June  paused  at  the  door,  holding  it  open  and  waited  for  her.    
Inside  the  store  was  dim  and  smelled  of  rubber  and  musty  canvas.  A  bell  jangled  and  announced  
their  arrival.    
Behind  the  long  counter  a  curtain  opened  and  the  store  proprietor,  Joe  Malinowski,  emerged.  
“Ladies,  what  can  I  do  you  for?”  Malinowski  asked.  He  put  both  hands  on  the  counter  and  slouched  
into  his  shoulders,  letting  his  belly  sag  below  the  edge  of  the  counter.    
June  put  out  her  hand  and  April  laid  the  list  in  her  palm.  
She  looked  down  at  the  list  as  though  she  was  looking  through  half  glasses  just  like  her  English  
teacher  Miss  Ida  Burnite  did  before  reading  an  important  passage  of  text.    
“I  need  some  equipment  for  an  extended  stay  in  the  wilderness,”  June  said.  
“The  wilderness!”  he  said.  “Where  you  goin’?  Konokwee?”  
Konokwee  was  the  local  Girl  Scout  camp  where  every  6  to  10  year-­‐old-­‐girl  in  area  spent  a  week  
during  the  summer.  It  was  just  a  little  patch  of  woods  surrounded  by  cornfields  a  few  miles  up  the  road.  
Even  April  was  way  beyond  Camp  Konokwee.  
“Actually,  no,”  June  said,  for  her  the  word  “actually”  was  like  a  verbal  tic,  used  to  underline  her  
disdain  and  as  a  precursor  to  a  frosty  correction  of  fact.    
“Actually,”  she  said  again.  “I  will  be  in  the  Adirondack  Mountains  for  three  months,  so…”  
The  Adirondacks  were  truly  rustic,  known  to  still  have  bears  and,  for  the  east  coast,  just  about  as  
much  wilderness  as  you  could  get.    
  

6  

Magpies  
“Uh  huh,”  Malinowski  said  and  took  the  list  from  June’s  hand.    
He  rubbed  his  chin  and  scratched  the  gray  stubble  that  ran  down  his  neck.    
“Awright,  the  sleeping  bags  are  down  there,  the  mess  kit  and  canteens  are  over  there,”  he  said  
gesturing  with  a  tired  wave  around  the  store.  “This  here  mosquito  stuff  I  gotta  get  for  you  in  the  back.”  
Alone  in  the  store  June  and  April  looked  for  the  sleeping  bags.  They  walked  down  the  narrow  aisles  
lined  with  metal  shelves  reaching  up  to  a  peeling,  pressed  tin  ceiling.  The  shelves  were  packed  full  of  
cast  off  WWII  equipment.  A  pile  of  green  canvas  tent  pieces  had  slid  off  a  shelf  and  blocked  part  of  the  
aisle.  June  ran  a  few  steps  and  leapt  over  the  pile;  April  edged  around  it,  pressing  her  hands  on  top  of  
the  pile  as  though  holding  it  down.    
By  the  time  she  looked  up  again;  June  was  gone.  She  found  her  at  the  very  back  of  the  store  
standing  at  a  rack  of  green  fatigue  jackets,  sliding  her  fingers  along  the  sleeve  of  one.  Suddenly  June  
pulled  a  jacket  from  the  rack  and  put  it  on.    
“What  do  you  think?”  she  asked  pulling  the  jacket  open  on  one  side,  hand  on  hip,  jutting  out  her  left  
leg.    
“You  look  like  a  protester!”  April  said.  Protesters  got  sprayed  with  fire  hoses,  hit  with  batons,  and  
dragged  off  to  jail.  
“Yeah,  right!”  June  said  and  turned  to  flash  the  back  of  the  jacket  at  April.  “I’m  gonna  put  a  big  
peace  sign  on  the  back,  it’ll  be  so  cool.”  
And  it  would  be.  June’s  ideas  were  always  cool.  They  seemed  to  fall  from  the  sky  like  white  feathers  
and  land  on  her  shoulders,  light,  fresh,  natural,  free  for  the  picking.  April  instantly  wanted  a  jacket  just  
like  that  one.  She  reached  up  to  check  the  sizes;  June  wagged  a  finger  in  front  of  her  face  and  hissed:    
“Don’t  even  think  about  copying  me.”    

  

7  

Magpies  
June  kept  the  jacket  on  as  she  picked  out  a  sleeping  bag  and  a  poncho  in  a  pouch  that  was  folded  up  
like  a  letter.  The  mess  kit  and  canteen  clanked  together,  making  a  tuneless,  hollow  noise,  as  they  
walked  back  to  the  counter.  From  the  flashlight  display  near  the  counter  April  selected  one  with  a  
rugged,  rubbery  case  and  a  lamp  that  rotated  90  degrees.  June  accepted  it  with  a  nod.  
“Jesus,  look  at  you,”  Malinowski  said  when  he  saw  June  in  the  green  jacket.  “All  you  need  is  a  brain  
bucket  and  a  bayonet  you’re  ready  to  ship  out  and  fight  for  America,  eh  soldier  girl?”    
He  leaned  heavily  on  the  counter  while  he  wrote  up  the  order.  He  hummed,  at  varying  tempos,  the  
Notre  Dame  fight  song  as  he  totaled  up  the  sales  slip.    
“87  dollars  and  48  cents,”  he  said.  
April  scanned  the  slip,  totaled  the  numbers,  applied  the  state  tax,  and  got  $87.  74.  He’d  added  the  
state  sales  tax  wrong.  She  could  calculate  columns  of  numbers  as  quickly  and  easily  as  most  people  
could  scan  them,  but  rarely  did  anyone  appreciate  her  piping  up  about  errors.  When  she  did,  people  
would  say  something  like,  Aren’t  you  a  smart  little  girl?  but  not  in  a  nice  way,  so  unless  she  was  getting  
gypped  she  kept  it  to  herself.  
June  pulled  the  signed  check  their  mother  gave  her  from  her  pocket.  
Malinowski  frowned.    
“Let  me  see  that,”  he  said.  
June  handed  it  too  him  and  stared  out  the  store’s  front  window  as  though  something  fascinating  
was  happening  on  the  street.  
“Are  you  Jack  Murphy’s  girls?”  he  asked.    
April  jumped  a  bit  when  he  said  her  father’s  name  and  then  stood  still  with  her  mouth  open,  
waiting.  June,  though  she  tried  to  act  indifferent,  leaned  forward,  bending  her  straight  back  just  a  tick.    
“I  knew  your  dad.”    
  

8  

Magpies  
Any  mention  of  her  father  thrilled  April.  Her  mother  never  talked  about  him,  never  mentioned  his  
death  or  seemed  to  look  back  at  all.  Sometimes  April  felt  as  though  she’d  dreamed  him,  and  now  the  
dream  was  fading;  shredding  and  crumbling.  It  was  like  trying  to  hold  onto  a  burnt  up  page  from  a  
glossy  magazine;  the  colors  stripped  away  by  the  flame,  the  images  all  black,  gray,  and  white  instead  of  
red,  blue,  and  yellow,  and  all  the  while  the  paper  is  collapsing  into  an  oily  ash  that  clings  to  your  
fingertips.    
Any  snippet  of  information  about  him;  she  snatched  at  like  a  magpie  plucking  up  a  shiny  bit.  And  
June  did  it,  too.  They  picked  up  these  gleaming  bits  eavesdropping,  rummaging  through  trunks  in  the  
attic,  and  ‘making  themselves  useful’  by  fetching  beers  for  their  uncles  at  family  parties.  Since  he  died  
they  learned  that  he  liked  Frank  Sinatra,  war  movies,  and  his  shirts  with  heavy  starch.  That  he  drank  
Manhattans,  never  wore  short-­‐sleeve  shirts  or  shorts,  and  in  high  school  he  wrote  funny  stories  under  
the  name  ‘Le  Wag’  for  the  student  paper.    They  learned  that  he  hated  fixing  stuff  around  the  house,  
though  June  kind  of  remembered  that,  and  that  one  Christmas  when  their  mother  gave  him  a  toolbox,  
he  opened  it,  saw  that  it  was  empty  and  said:  “Thank  God!  I  was  worried  there  were  tools  in  there.”      
Sometimes  at  night  June  would  let  April  crawl  into  bed  with  her  and  they  would  rifle  through  their  
cache  of  stolen  treasures  and  share  in  the  exquisite  pain  of  trying,  and  failing,  to  conjure  him  back  to  
life.    
“Now  wait  a  minute,”  Malinowski  said.  “Where  you  going?  The  Adirondacks?  What  for?”  
April  saw  a  rib  of  muscle  rise  on  her  sister’s  cheek  as  June  set  her  jaw,  determined  to  stonewall  this  
guy,  rebuff  his  incursion  into  her  life.  But  April  knew  that  unless  they  chatted  up  this  guy,  played  the  
role  of  charming  fatherless  girls,  he  wouldn’t  tell  them  anything.    
June  was  not  in  the  mood  for  acting.  

  

9  

Magpies  
April  could  feel  the  treasure,  whatever  treasure  this  man  had  to  share,  falling  away,  sinking  like  a  
string  of  pearls  to  the  bottom  of  ocean.    
She  made  a  grab  for  it.    
“She’s  goin’  to  be  a  counselor  at  the  Fresh  Air  Camp,”  April  blurted.  
“Fresh  Air  Camp?  What  the  hell’s  that?”  he  asked.  
“It’s  a  summer  camp  for  inner  city  negro  kids,”  April  said.  
“Negro  kids!”  he  said.  “Oh  brother,  I  doubt  your  dad  would  go  for  that.”  
“Does  this  have  DDT  in  it?”  June  asked  holding  up  the  bug  repellent.  “DDT  kills  birds.”  
June’s  brought  up  DDT  to  distract  the  man.  It  worked.  He  erupted  into  a  rant  about  ‘some  egghead  
lady  scientist’  and  how  thanks  to  her,  you  can’t  sit  on  your  goddamn  stoop  in  the  evening  without  
gettin’  half  eaten  alive.    
“So,  no,  there  ain’t  no  DDT  in  that,”  he  concluded,  angrily  grabbing  the  can  from  June  and  slamming  
it  on  the  counter.  
April  waited  until  the  angry  flush  on  Malinowski’s  cheeks  faded  a  bit  and  said:    
“So,  you  knew  our  dad,  huh?  Jack  Murphy?”    
“Oh  yeah,  yeah,  I  knew  your  old  man.  Old  ‘Lucky  Mick—’”    
“Mick?”  April  asked.  
“It’s…  slang  for  Irish,”  June  said.  “It’s  not  nice.”  
“Ah  come  on  now,  it  was  all  in  good  fun,”  Malinowski  said,  smiling  as  he  looked  at  June,  haughty  and  
tall,  standing  almost  as  tall  as  him.  “Lucky  Mick  sold  the  City  their  very  first  snowplow,  then  as  ‘luck’  
would  have  it,  Bam!  27-­‐inch  snowfall  not  two  weeks  later  and  the  city  orders  10  more  snowplows.  Lucky  
Mick,  the  Snowplow  King!”  
April  straightened  up,  pulled  her  shoulders  back  so  proudly  the  blades  almost  touched  in  the  back.  
  

10  

Magpies  
“The  City  was  my  account,  but  I  gave  up  on  those  corrupt  jagoffs,  told  your  old  man  he  could  take  a  
whack  at  cracking  those  rotten  eggs.”  
“And  he  did!”  April  said.  
June  flushed  and  reached  up  to  scratch  her  eyebrow.  
“Yeah,  it  took  a  lot  cocktails  —a  lot—  and  who  knows  what  else,  but  he  did  it,”  Malinowski  said.  
“That’s  how  he  got  the  name  ‘Lucky  Mick.’  Course  you  know  what  that  made  me?”  
“No,”  April  said  delighted.    
June  tore  at  her  cuticle.  
“A  dumb  Pollack,  that’s  what!”  Malinowski  said  and  laughed  but  not  happily.  “That  what  he  called  
me  from  that  day  forward:  Dumb  Pollack.”  
April  was  confused,  they  weren’t  allowed  to  call  people  names,  their  mother  forbid  it,  but  he  was  
laughing,  so  she  smiled  and  nodded.  
“We  gotta  get  going,”  June  said.  
“Oh  yeah,  yeah,”  Malinowski  said.  “I  just  got  one  more  story  about  your  dad.  
He  looked  at  April,  “You  wanna  to  hear  it?”  
“Yes!”  
“This  one’s  got  negroes  in  it,”  he  said  and  clapped  his  hands.  
June  laced  her  fingers  together  and  wrung  her  hands  until  her  joints  were  white  and  her  fingers  
were  twisted  and  clenched  into  a  mass  of  angry  bones.      
“Well,  me  and  your  dad  were  working  for  Hennessey  Heavy  Equipment,  and  Hennessey,  the  big  
boss,  said,  ‘Boys  this  weekend  I  want  you  all  to  come  in  here,  bright  and  early,  no  exceptions  and  wear  
your  painting  clothes  cause  we’re  goin’  paint  this  place,  top  to  bottom!’    And  your  dad,  the  Snowplow  
King,  cock  of  the  walk,  you  know,  he  said:  ‘Bob,  you  go  find  some  nonwhite  men  to  do  this  work.’”    
  

11  

Magpies  
  

“Uh  huh,”  April  said.  

  

“Saturday  rolls  around,  we’re  all  there  standing  around  with  our  coc—,  well  standing  around  and  

Lucky  Mick’s  nowhere  to  be  seen.  Then  two  of  the  biggest  Negro  fellas  you’ve  ever  seen  walked  in  and  
said:  ‘Mister  Murphy  sent  us  on  over  to  paint  for  you  all.’  We  all  skipped  out  of  there.  ‘See  ya,  
Hennessey!  We’re  going  to  go  see  the  Buccos  play.’  Har!  Har!  Har!  Har!  !”  Malinowski  barked  out  
laughing.  And  April  laughed  too  but  felt  uneasy  like  when  Julie  Barnes  pointed  at  her  shoes  and  said  that  
saddles  shoes  were  for  babies  but  then  said,  “But  your  hair’s  real  pretty!”  
  

She  looked  to  ‘flinty’  June  for  help,  but  June  seemed  to  have  shrunken.  The  fatigue  jacket  was  

way  too  big  now;  her  slim  shoulder  were  doing  no  more  to  fill  it  out  than  a  hanger,  and  now  instead  the  
defiant  protester  of  a  moment  ago,  she  looked  like  a  waif  draped  in  soldier’s  jacket,  like  she’d  been  
pulled  from  a  bombed  out  building  in  Prague  or  somewhere.  
June  wrote  out  the  rest  of  the  check,  shoved  the  sleeping  bag  at  April  and  they  left.    
Out  on  the  street,  April  balanced  the  sleeping  bag  on  her  head  and  dawdled  along.  
“Come  on,”  June  snapped.  
  April  ran  a  few  steps,  dropped  the  sleeping  bag.  The  bag  bounced  once  then  rolled  towards  the  
street,  April  raced  after  it,  caught  it  just  in  time.  When  she  got  to  the  car  June  was  sitting  with  her  hands  
on  the  wheel,  staring  straight  ahead.  The  passenger  door  was  locked.  
“Hey!  Let  me  in!  June!”    
June  scowled,  then  reached  across  the  seat  and  unlocked  the  door.  April  wrestled  the  sleeping  bag  
into  the  front  seat  with  her,  it  crowded  her  and  she  couldn’t  see  over  the  puffy  bag,  she  punched  it  
down  and  laughed.    
June  released  a  mighty  “Tsk”  and  said,  “Put  it  in  the  back,  for  God  sakes.”    

  

12  

Magpies  
April  shoved  the  sleeping  bag  over  the  seat  and  gave  June  a  good  loud  “Tsk”  too.  June  turned  the  
key  in  the  ignition,  but  the  car  was  already  on  and  the  engine  screamed.    She  pulled  forward,  and  then  
back  and  then  forward  again  and  worked  her  way  up  onto  the  sidewalk.  April  was  about  to  offer  some  
advice  when  June  pounded  the  wheel  and  yelled:  “Goddammit!”    
Finally,  they  haltingly  pulled  out  of  the  space  and  onto  Main  Street.  They  came  to  a  light,  June  
stopped  and  put  on  her  left  blinker,  but  traffic  kept  coming.  She  gave  up  and  drove  straight  through  the  
intersection.  
“That  was  the  turn,”  April  said.  
“There  was  too  much  traffic!”  June  said.  “I  can’t  turn  left,  it’s  too  hard.”  
“Well,  you’re  goin’  halfta…eventually,”  April  said.    
“I  know!”    
They  drove  out  of  town  and  the  road  got  narrower  and  the  traffic  thinned  out.  June  turned  on  her  
blinker,  looked  all  around,  and  then  slowly  pulled  into  a  warehouse  parking  lot  where  she  made  a  big  
loop.  She  stopped  before  pulling  back  on  the  road  and  shook  out  her  hands.  As  they  drove  past  the  
Army  Surplus  store  April  said;  “Lucky  Mick,  the  Snowplow  King,  ha!”  
“Shut  up.”  
April  turned  on  the  radio.  
June  turned  it  off.    
April  slumped  down  in  her  seat  and  watched  the  trees  go  by  as  they  crept  up  the  hill.  The  wind  from  
the  open  window  was  cold  now;  she  cranked  the  window  shut.  She  felt  tears  burn  in  her  nose  and  she  
looked  up  to  try  and  stop  them  by  watching  the  telephone  wires  rise  and  fall  as  they  reached  from  pole  
to  pole.  But  she  was  no  good  at  not  crying,  tears  spilled  down  her  cheeks.  She  pulled  her  shirt  up  and  
mopped  her  face.  When  she  rolled  the  tear  and  snot-­‐soaked  shirt  back  down,  it  felt  cold  and  clammy  
  

13  

Magpies  
against  her  chest.  She  tried  to  suck  the  snot  back  into  her  chest  as  quietly  as  possible,  but  a  gurgle  of  
mucus  betrayed  her.  
“What  are  you  crying  about?”    
“I,  I,  I,  I,”  April  said  and  began  sobbing.    
June  made  a  quick  left  into  the  grade  school  parking  lot  at  the  top  of  the  hill.    
“What?”  June  asked  more  kindly.  
“I  don’t  know  what  I  did!”  April  said.  “Why  do  you  hate  me  soooo  much?  Everybody  hates  me.”  
“Oh  my  God,”  June  said.  “I  don’t  hate  you,  you're  my  sister  so  just  shut  up  about  that.  What  do  you  
mean  ‘everybody  hates  me’?”  
“At  school,  some  of  the  girls,  they  make  fun  of  my  clothes  and,  and,  and…”  
“Don’t  pay  any  attention  to  those  7th  grade  bitches.  Your  clothes—we  can  fix,  don’t  worry  about  
that.”  
“But  you’re  leaving—”  
“Just  for  the  summer.  What  else?”  
April  thought  about  the  new  dad  stories.  She’d  grabbed  at  them,  gobbled  them  down  and  now  they  
sat  heavy  in  her  stomach  and  churned.  Was  he  a  cheater?  Did  he  bribe  those  city  guys?  But  he  was  the  
Snowplow  King!  What  about  saying  ‘hire  nonwhite  guys’  as  though  they  were  lesser  people?  That’s  not  
right…  But,  thanks  to  Lucky  Mick,  they  all  went  to  the  ballgame!  
“I  didn’t  understand  those  stories  about  Dad.”  
“I  did.”  
“Was  a  he  a  good  guy  or  a  bad  guy?”  
“He  was  just  a  guy.”  
“No,  no,  he  was  a  good  guy,  that  man,  he  could  be  lying—”    
  

14  

Magpies  
“No,  it’s  true,  I  feel  it,”  June  said.    
April  crumbled  back  against  the  door,  exhausted.  
“And  what’s  it  matter  anyway?”  she  said.  “It’s  almost  over.”  
“What’s  almost  over?”  
April  shared  her  secret-­‐super-­‐special  calculation.  She  stuck  out  her  arm,  cocked  her  wrist,  her  
fingers  pointing  up  and  then  ticked  her  fingers  down  in  five  measured  clicks  until  her  arm  was  level.  She  
paused  there  for  a  moment,  then  clicked  her  fingers  down  one  more  time  and  dropped  her  arm  into  her  
lap.    
  April  stared  into  June’s  eyes,  begging  her  to  agree,  to  say  that  it  would  be  over;  it  would  end.  That  it  
would  not  just  go  on  and  on,  refreshed  by  every  big  thing—driver’s  licenses,  birthdays,  graduations,  
proms,  weddings.    That  every  milestone  would  not  be  like  banging  the  tip  of  your  finger  right  on  that  
cut  you’d  almost  forgotten  about,  the  wound  you  thought  was  healed  suddenly  splitting  open,  bleeding  
again.  
June  said  nothing  but  stared  out  onto  the  empty  ball  field.  Her  tongue  flew  up  to  the  roof  of  her  
mouth,  cocked  and  ready  to  launch  the  biggest  most  disdainful  “Tsk”  of  her  life.    
“I’m  sorry  June,  ‘cause  you  were  ten,  and  now  you’re  just  16,”  April  said  and  patted  June’s  arm.      
“You  still  have  four  more  years  to  go.”  
June’s  anger  deflated  in  small,  soft  exhales  at  each  pat  from  her  sister’s  hand,  until  she  was  empty.  
  “I’ll  be  okay,”  she  said.  “I  can  do  four  more  years,  easy.”  
Over  the  next  week,  June  closed  herself  up  in  her  room,  shooing  her  sister  away,  calling  her  a  pest.  
And  then  on  her  birthday,  she  presented  April  with  a  big  box.    
Inside  was  the  green  fatigue  jacket,  a  peace  sign  painted  on  the  back,  and  the  name  “Murphy”  his  
name/her  name  stenciled  on  the  left  breast  pocket.    
  

15  

Magpies  
“Wear  this,  that  will  shut  up  those  7th  grade—”  June  looked  at  their  mother  and  said,  “Witches.”  
It  wasn’t  until  after  June  had  left  for  the  summer  that  April  found,  embroidered  in  the  pocket,  a  tiny  
seesaw,  one  end  firmly  on  the  ground,  and  footprints  disappearing  into  the  seam.    
  
  
END  
  
  

  

16  


