The  night  of  the  storm  I  heard  my  neighbor’s  pigs  screaming,  but  I  didn’t  do  anything.  Even  though  it  
sounded  like  babies,  I  knew  it  had  to  be  the  pigs.  But  I  was  warm  and  dry,  and  besides,  the  storm  was  
raging.  Water  poured  from  the  sky,  not  rain-‐rain  comes  in  drops,  strings,  sheets  even,  but  this,  this  you  
couldn’t  even  see,  it  came  so  hard.    
  
In  the  morning  the  sun  came  out  like  a  joke  and  we  all  gathered  on  my  lawn,  which  used  to  
slope  down  to  the  street.  Tom  told  me  that  he  and  Jody  had  stood  in  the  storm  last,  couldn’t  get  to  the  
barn  because  of  the  creek,  now  a  river,  and  they  had  watched  until  they  couldn’t  watch,  until  the  water  
covered  their  boots  and  Tom  dragged  Jody  back  into  the  house  and  up  to  the  second  floor.    
They  saved  one  pig.    
Power  was  out,  but  we  had  our  cell  phones,  knew  enough  to  call  911.  What’s  your  emergency?  
the  woman  asked,  and  I  said,  “Our  town  is  gone.”    
  
That’s  what  was  hardest  to  believe.  Things  were  gone,  just  gone.  The  Canfield’s  car,  Tom’s  lawn  
tractor,  Mike’s  woodshed,  the  covered  bridge  we’d  raised  our  taxes  to  repair,  the  street.  More.     
  
In  the  afternoon,  the  National  Guard  called  with  updates.  We’re  coming,  they  said,  but  they  told  
us  that  the  whole  state  was  a  disaster  area,  that  whole  regions  were  cut  off,  that  people  were  dead,  that  
it  might  be  a  while  before  they  could  figure  out  how  to  reach  us.  We’re  okay,  Mike  told  them.  We  
prepared.  
  
And  we  had.  We  had  no  power,  but  we  had  grills  and  food  and  beer.  There  were  just  over  thirty  
of  us,  those  who  lived  in  the  center  of  town  between  the  creek  and  the  old  bridge.  We  ate  and  drank.  
We  huddled  closer  as  the  sun  went  down  and  talked  about  whether  the  Guard  would  arrive  by  boat  or  
helicopter.  We  shook  our  heads,  lamented  what  this  would  do  to  the  trout.  Then  we  talked  about  other  
things,  how  Carly  had  just  left  for  college,  who  the  new  second  grade  teacher  was,  who  was  going  to  
organize  next  year’s  venison  dinner.  Normal  things.  Things  that  filled  the  night.  We  put  on  headlamps,  lit  
candles,  kept  talking.    
After  midnight  everyone  left.  It  was  cold,  but  I  didn’t  want  to  go  inside.  Earlier,  Tom  had  said  we  
should  feel  lucky.  We’re  alive,  we’re  safe,  our  houses  are  salvageable.  It’s  not  New  Orleans,  he  laughed.  
It’s  Vermont.  It’s  just  things  we  lost,  he  said.  We  raised  our  glasses,  nodded,  Just  things,  someone  
repeated.    
Yes.  Things.  
Eventually,  I  climbed  into  my  dry  bed  as  if  it  were  a  normal  late  summer  night.  I  told  myself  what  
a  great  community  this  was,  how  lucky  we  were  to  have  good  neighbors,  how  I  had  done  all  I  could.    But  
before  that,  I  sat  on  the  porch  and  drank  until  I  couldn’t  hear  the  pigs.  


