When I was 15, I killed a couple cows belonging to a neighbor. It was fall. I was a
sophomore. I was coasting through school. I hardly even noticed it. Autumn was all
pheromones. Bright orange leaves, woodsmoke, boners. I felt like I had a few too many
gallons of blood in my veins.
No one knew I had the crossbow. Dad knew I had a rifle, he gave me it, but not
the bow. It was a hunting bow with a nice polished wood stock and a 4x20 scope. Found
it on craigslist for $60 and met a freckled guy in the Walmart parking lot. Came with six
aluminum arrows and a sling. He didn’t look me in the eye once, looking down at his
phone the whole time.
I kept it in the closet. Target practice on a straw bale out in the back of the
backyard, in the shadow at the edge of the woods in the late afternoon, before dad got
home from work.
Sometimes I’d be back there shooting and a deer would poke her head out from
the edge of the woods and walk out, freeze, and side-eye me for a while. It’d take her a
moment she’d determine I was all right — just another splotchy human kid standing in
some weeds with bulgy jeans and a tool in his hand — and she’d wander out and nose her
way into some wild mustard.
She’d be standing there, broadside, head down in her greens. Sort of a dream shot,
but I didn’t want to kill a deer at home. Not superstitious, I just liked them coming
around. I could see them from my bedroom window.
I always overheated in my bedroom. Dad liked to keep the house hot. But there
was too much blood in me. I’d open the window and lean half my body out. It felt like I
was dunking into an ice bath. Sometimes it felt so good I’d crawl the rest of the way out
and go for a wander. Midnight, 3am, didn’t matter.
One night I went wandering out my window with my crossbow slung over my
shoulder. The asphalt was slick, frozen dew. In the breeze, you could hear the frozen
branches clicking against each other. My senses were turned all the way up like a
cougar’s. I thought I’d hunt something down in the dark.
Long story short, I ended up killing two of the Grondowskis’ cows. It wasn’t long
after I’d left home. The Grondowskis were our neighbors up the road. I won’t bore you
with the details, but I got one in the vitals and one just below the anus, what they call the
taint, while it ran away. That one ran a few more yards after it was shot, looked over its
shoulder at me, rocked back and forth a bit, and then stumbled and rolled down the steep
hill into the creek. It bled out down there. Not an honorable kill.
I pulled the arrow out of the first cow, then climbed down the hill after the other
one. I hiked out along the creek instead of taking the road. I cut north into the woods that
divided our properties. I had my hut back there.
I went there, jerked off, cleaned the arrows, zoned out, then went home.

My dad didn’t give a shit about me. I mean, he liked me, I guess, but he didn’t
worry about me at all. I only ever saw him when I was scarfing cereal or whatever.
One morning I was at the counter eating a bowl of Cinnamon Toast Crunch,
watching Dad assemble a drone on the coffee table. I’d been wanting a drone. Last year,
Billy Desmond brought a combat drone to the talent show. It had a blowtorch on it. Billy
was a chubby Native American kid who I’d never really paid attention to until then.
Turned out he was talented. His talent was he stood to the side of the stage and flew the
drone over a cake he’d placed on a table there and lit the candles with a blowtorch blast.
It was awesome.
We lined up and ate the cake afterwards. My piece was a little waxy. I went up to
Billy and asked if I could fly it. He said hell no. I respected that.
“Can I fly that thing when you get it built?” I asked Dad.
“Hell no you can’t,” he said. “This is so we can keep an eye on those protesters.”
He did air-quotes. The word “protesters” was pretty much interchangeable with “Indians”
those days.
Dad was Sheriff and he had his hands full with the Indians all summer. They were
protesting because fish were dying and they were saying it was because of the fracking.

War Games 4

They had the road blockaded for weeks. After weather and milk prices, small talk
around town always turned to the protesters and their fuss.
This of course was well before the aquifer collapsed.
Distrust of the protesters grew all summer. The blockade on the highway passing
the reservation meant a long detour for people driving that way. Resentment compounded
distrust. Newscasters wouldn’t shut up about the protest. Everyone on social media was
bouncing links into the echo chamber and fighting in the comments. Fatigue compounded
resentment.
When Jim Grondowski found the cows, he figured it was Indians that did it, clued
not only by the arrow wounds but also because he’d just recently found himself at odds
with the tribe.
What’d happened was a guy in a truck swerved toward an elder woman who was
standing on the shoulder holding up a feather toward him. She had to dive into a ditch to
avoid him. There was a video. It was sort of funny to watch, in an unfortunate blooper
kinda way.
Turned out the driver, the swerver, was Mr Grondowski. So that’s how he got
himself on the Indians’ most wanted list, along with the governor, the CEO of the
fracking outfit, and my dad. They were all getting called out by strangers on Twitter. Mr
Grondowski came over to tell my dad about the cows. My dad was heading to work.
They stood there talking, both looking down at the driveway, shaking their heads.
Mr G figured some protesters had killed his cows to get even for the driving
mishap. He muttered, “It’s damn terrifying.”

War Games 5

My dad said, “They’re basically like terrorists.”
Word went around about the cows, and floating along behind it was that word:
terrorist.
It got some news coverage. “Cows discovered dead early Wednesday on a local
farmer’s property were shot with arrows. The property is less than a mile from the Native
American protest camp, where tensions with officials are ongoing.”
Everyone was dead sure it was some Indians who did it.
“Save the money on the judge, you know as well as I know who killed those
cows.”
There was a sense of excitement about it. Deep down, everyone loves a game of
Cowboys-and-Indians. I’d say even Indians do, deep down. It’s primal. We’re all of us
weaned on those same frontier stories. My class read the same US History textbook as
my dad’s did. We all know how it goes. The Indians play victim, us White guys play
dumb. And now here an Indian destroyed a White guy’s property. It triggered something
deep. People were seething.
I wasn’t worried about a thing, personally. I felt untraceable, with my craigslist
crossbow. So I could just hang back and watch everything, like I had nothing to do with it
at all, even though I was complicit to some degree, and now tensions were really starting
to flare up.
Some churchy volunteers crowdsourced the price of replacement livestock for the
Grondowskis. The cover photo on their facebook was a wonky painting of Jesus holding
a glowing hand up to bless a calf. They raised the money in less than 48 hours.

War Games 6

The Grondowskis made a public statement thanking the community for the
substitute cows. Mrs Grondowski did the talking, breathy and teary. Said the cows were
more like family than livestock, said they felt blessed and humbled by the kindness, and
said she sure hoped law enforcement to put an end to the recklessness and violence that
was plaguing the community.
The town ate it up.
A few days later an old Indian fellow got run over in the Walmart parking lot. A
security guard backed into him with his F-150. Old man ended up under the bumper with
a broken rib, water bottles spilled out his toppled cart, rolling all over the parking lot. The
driver said he’d accidentally bumped the gearshift when he dropped his burger. Showed
his unfinished burger as if that was evidence. No charges against him, he didn’t
apologize.
My dad was cranky busy. He was always getting phone calls from numbers that
would make him stare hard and sigh heavily before answering.
He was on the news a lot. It was national news by that point.
One day I saw Natalie Portman outside Subway, where I was a quote unquote
Sandwich Artist. I watched her from inside the store. She was letting someone take a
selfie with her. I recognized him from school. Declan was his name. He was guffawing.
He was wearing his Roosevelt Warriors hoodie, that’s the high school team. The mascot
is a hook-nosed Indian riding a cartoon horse. The town was big into their Warriors. War
cries at the basketball games. Everyone had their Warriors gear. Their fitted caps, their
beer cozies, their keychains. At least a dreamcatcher hanging from the rearview. Indians

War Games 7

were a big part of the town’s identity. I mean the old kind of Indians. Warriors.

When Grondowski came by that time to tell dad about the cows and chat about
terrorism and such, I was lingering inside, watching them through the screen door. They
shuffled around with their hands in their pockets, each nodding and frowning, muttering,
“Yup,” to everything the other said.
I heard Mr G mumble something about arrows and make a gesture, which I
interpreted as representing a cow being shot in the taint. I blurted, “Billy Desmond has a
crossbow!” They both looked at me.
I don’t know why I said Billy Desmond’s name. It just came to mind.
But, in terms of keeping the suspicion totally off of me, it turned out it was
exactly the right thing to say. Billy Desmond. Geeky, pudgy Billy, with his killer robots.
He slotted right into some notion everyone already had, a notion formed long ago, of the
particular kind of person who might have killed those cows.
“Something off about that kid.”
But they didn’t press charges. Nothing to go on but a notion, I guess.

It was cold. Crunchy ground. I was spending a lot of time out at my shed. It was
on BLM land. I was thinking of growing weed when the weather got better. Let freedom
ring. I was feeling good. I was renovating the shed. Insulating it. I even found some
scraps of carpet on someone’s curb and put that in. I was gonna build a stove. I sat around
in there a lot. Did my thinking. Whatever.

War Games 8

One night I went out to the shed and the door was open. When I walked in, I
inadvertently cornered a fox that had found its way inside. It freaked, I freaked, it sprang
past me. The shed was frosty and the frost was stamped with hundreds of dancing fox
prints.
Taco Bell was open until midnight and had those Doritos tacos, which I was a
fiend for those days. It was like a mile from the shed to Taco Bell. I cut out the woods to
the street and took the shortcut to the back of the strip mall. I heard commotion as I came
around to the front of the building.
Declan was there with some buddies and girlfriends. The girls were wearing
Pocahontas costumes. I forgot it was Halloween. Declan had on a feathered headdress
and some war paint. There was a Water is Life picket sign leaning against his knees. I’m
pretty sure the Jack Daniels bottle he was swigging was part of his get-up too.
His buddies were chasing each other around the icy parking lot, giggling like 10
year olds, dousing each other with Super Soakers. They had the big strapped cannon ones
that cost like $80. The girls were taking turns rolling their eyes and screeching.
The front door of Taco Bell swung open and Billy Desmond came walking out,
bag in hand.
Declan grabbed a Super Soaker from his buddy.
“Hey Billy,” he said. “You thirsty, bro?”
He drenched him. Totally ruined his burritos. Declan and his friends were
cracking up. Billy looked at them, looked at me, and got on his bike and rode off. It was
real cold. I ate about six of those Doritos tacos, then went home.

War Games 9

Heard the next morning about that protester who lost her leg. She said she got
shot with a flash grenade.
Dad was on a press conference, denying the department even used that particular
kind of grenade. Said it must have been one of their own.
Law enforcement treaded lightly for a while after that, with folks online hollering
brutality. But they stayed out there all winter, in their riot gear, looking through their
plexiglass shields at the Indians praying in snow.


