The sausages were starting to get old. If she kept them inside they would
spoil before she had a chance to eat them. Cricket rolled off the mattress, rolled
about three more revolutions before she reached the door, slid it open, and
placed the sausages on the door step next to the shoes. The cold winds rushed in
and Cricket’s sister complained in her sleep.
The sausages had been given to her one morning by a handsome man
wearing a business suit who had been driving east and had stopped his shiny
black car next to the water pump where Cricket stood, alone, in the fields outside
of her village. He had asked her for water. He thanked her and then gave her the
pack of sausages because he had nothing else to give her. He either gave it to her
or left it by accident. She would later forget which. The man had told her he was
here to start a shoe repair business.
Just then, a truckload of young women drove past them. They were her
relatives and her neighbors, heading for the bathhouse. It was easy to tell
because they all had their towels and sandals. They waved at her.
“Aren’t you going with them?” the man asked.
“No.”
The man looked at her, puzzled. Cricket had stopped going to the
bathhouse because of the women there. Every time she took off her clothes, they
would stare admiringly.
“Oh my God, how big!”
“How could anyone have such a pretty pair of breasts!”
“I know, like two upturned bowls of rice!”

She would shrug and cover herself, feeling violated. For this reason,
Cricket pumped her own water and bathed alone. It was an extra chore, and she
ended up bathing far less often than the others.
Cricket realized that the man was still looking at her, puzzled. He was
waiting for her large gray eyes to take on some kind of expression.
“I’d rather die in my own filth than let my merchandise hang out for all
the public to see,” she said.
Her sharp, bitter words sent the man into peals of laughter.
“How old are you?” he asked.
“Nineteen.”
“And your name?”
“Cricket.”
“Cricket? Even for a country person, that’s an awful name.”
“It’s because my real name is very hard to pronounce when you’re talking
fast,” Cricket said. “They called me Locust, because it kind of sounds like my real
name.”
“And so you went from Locust to Cricket?”
“Yes. Locust was too unflattering, even for me.”
The man smiled.
She didn’t care that he smiled. She was self-deprecating, but her intention
was to amuse herself, not to put herself down.
“Well then, how does the husband of Miss Cricket manage to tolerate her
smell?”
“He doesn’t. That’s why he ran away. I haven’t seen him since.”

The man laughed again, leaning on the well to regain his balance. His legs
were surprisingly unsteady.
Then he asked her if there was an outhouse nearby.
“There’s one in that direction,” she said, pointing towards the setting sun.
“But be careful. There’s a ghost in there.” She looked at him, waiting to see if he
was stupid enough to believe that she was stupid enough to believe this.
“A ghost won’t stop me from doing what I have to do,” he said. Then she
imagined him defecating, which made her feel uncomfortable. And he smirked
at her, because making her uncomfortable was his act of cruelty, she thought. But
it was cruelty she forgave, because it seemed like he was trying to be honest and
human with her.
“But she will. First, she’ll ask you what kind of toilet paper you want.
She’ll ask if you want red, blue, or yellow paper.”
“What if I just want plain white?”
“It doesn’t matter, because no matter what you say, she’ll scream ‘RED!’
and then kill you.” Cricket actually screamed the word “red”, making the man
jump. He laughed so hard, his hand almost slipped from the edge of the well.
He told her he’ll probably be seeing her again and then drove off. She
didn’t notice the sausages resting on the side of the well, tightly packed in plastic,
until the car was no longer visible on the horizon.
Cricket ignored the sausages for the time being and continued pumping
water. She closed her eyes and shivered with delight as she let the cold prairie
wind strike at her pores. She smelled the cold, sharply faint, golden smell of
barley, soil, and wind. And then she imagined the man driving off to see her
father, asking him if he could take his daughter with him to be his wife. At first,

her father would refuse. And then the man would offer some unspeakably large
sum of money. In real life, her father would still refuse but for the sake of the
fantasy, he gives in. The man would take her to his house and they would
wander around the house awkwardly, not knowing what to do with each other.
And then one day she would gingerly start taking off her clothes, pretending not
to know he was watching her, and then he would be unable to contain himself
after all this time. The rest, of course, would follow the laws of nature.
Cricket opened her eyes. Everything around her was black and yellow, the
parched grass interspersed with wet tree branches that had fallen on the ground,
the fast-moving clouds overhead. Fantasies were enough for her. If these
fantasies ended up being true, she’d be frightened. She didn’t mind pumping
water, planting rice, putting on dirty clothes, and tying her hair instead of
washing it. There was nothing else for her to do, and there was nothing wicked
about it. She was just waiting for time to go by, so that she could die, childless
and therefore guiltless. Then she could be reborn as something more convenient
for annihilation. And then soon the world would disappear and the insignificant
would become nonexistent. And then she thought of all the people who would
accuse her of being an unhappy person, and then she rolled her eyes at them.

Cricket put the sausages behind her shoes to show that they were hers.
She slid the door closed, rolled back to the mattress, and nestled against her
sister for warmth.
Lighter Than a Corpse
Cricket watched glumly one morning as her sister, Myo, wrapped all of
her belongings in a single wool blanket and tied the ends into a knot, using the

knot as a makeshift handle. It had already been decided the night before, the
arrangement. Cricket’s father, a widower, had arranged to send two of his
children – Sovan, because he was the youngest and the cutest, and Myo, because
she was the second youngest as well as the best cook in the family – to his
brother’s house where he could raise them with his wife.
This woman, married for three years and unable to produce a child, was
an embittered and hopeless woman who was always in the same state of being
every winter whenever Cricket and her siblings passed by their uncle’s thatchroofed house on their weekly five-mile walk to the market: always with her
forehead, nose and mouth covered with pieces of cloth to shield against the cold,
her body stiff and thick-looking from layers of brightly colored jackets. She
would squint at Cricket and her siblings from behind the wooden fence, the skin
around her eyes dry and angry-looking. Cricket and her siblings had decided
that underneath all those layers of cotton, the woman had turned into nothing
else but knotted wood during the winter, that the eyes became part of a mask.
The two children’s exodus would reestablish a much-needed balance
within the family: Cricket’s father was wifeless but saddled with five children
with enormous appetites; his brother had a wife but no children. Cricket and her
two other brothers watched from the wooden veranda as their sister and baby
brother faded into the cold distance with bundles hanging from their mittened
hands. Then the three of them went back in, Cricket closing the screen behind
them with a single fluid movement of the arm.
Nobody visited Myo and Sovan for a month. Cricket’s father said it would
be offensive to his brother if they visited too soon, because it would imply that
the husband and wife were doing a bad job. Cricket and the rest of the siblings

were far too afraid of the woolen woman anyway. So when Cricket next saw her
brother and sister, it when she was walking along the gravel path to the market,
carrying a bundle of embroidered dishcloths. Not that she nor anyone in her
family could possibly benefit from selling such a useless item, but there were so
few things to do during winter and now that there were fewer mouths to feed.
Depressedly, Cricket had sat by the low wooden dining table for weeks and
sewn twenty of them by candlelight, throwing them aside with disgust after her
fingers began to stiffen. Rest was a curse, because laziness was a result from it
and laziness was like a disease. It immobilized the body, made the mind rabid
with useless thoughts, and created unnatural cravings for more and more rest
time, more hours to the day.
She heard the swallows chirping up in the bare branches and allowed the
cold breeze, the last of the season, to sweep over her pores, remove the feeling of
dirtiness that came from yesterday’s dust, and cleanse her lungs. She passed by
her uncle’s yard and this time, the woolen woman was not there. Seized with an
opportunism that only comes to those contaminated with the germ of overactive
lethargy, she entered the yard and walked across it. The seams of her dignity and
efficiency had been slowly undoing themselves throughout the past two months,
and it all mounted up to this: she stepped onto the porch and, suddenly fearing
that the wrapped woman would appear, she decided to walk around the house
to the back.
Her sandals made tapping sounds against the closely packed soil as she
walked through the narrow opening between the house and the fence, a few
chickens surrounding her and creating a halo of noises around her moving feet.
The clouds overhead were sparse and looked like white paint scraped against the

sky with a knife. And then she saw a thin stream of smoke emerging from
somewhere in the back porch. Something smelled strange, something too
unfamiliar to be foul. As she rounded the corner, she saw that the string of
smoke came from a tiny bonfire, just outside the threshold of a sliding door,
which was opened just a crack. Out of the crack poked out a tiny pale hand,
which held a tiny lizard pierced by a tiny stick, held over the flames. All four
objects – the flame, the lizard’s carcass, the hand, and the stick – all amounted to
something that closely resembled a photographed moment but suddenly, as if
the hand had somehow detected Cricket’s presence, it withdrew and a number of
high-pitched murmurings ensued from the narrow opening of the door.
“Myo! Sovan!” Cricket shouted as she rammed in through the door like an
angry animal. There, sitting in a small square room with no furnishing except for
the straw mats on the floor, were her sister, hugging her knees together in a
corner, and her little brother, his former plumpness already gone. It was he who
was roasting the lizard.
Later on, they would try to console her, telling her that she had caught
them at a bad moment, that Uncle had in reality been giving them handfuls of
rice, but it was inevitable that Cricket’s family should fly into an uproar the likes
of which they had not seen since the death of Cricket’s mother. The weight of the
incident deserved it. The uproar lasted for a month, even after the two siblings
were regained, fed, and nursed back to health. It was discovered that the wooden
aunt was simply ill in the head. According to the two siblings, she would beat
them with a broom, but that was the least fearful thing about her. When she beat
them, they noticed an absence of anger, of any emotion in fact, on her face. But to
Cricket’s father, it hardly mattered what her motives were. He dragged the

woman out by the hair while the neighbors looked at her and jeered, once they
knew why she deserved it. Even after everyone calmed down and went on with
their lives, she walked to Cricket’s house, knelt in front of the porch, and begged
for forgiveness, knotted hair streaming down both sides of her pale face, strange
to see because she was wearing nothing but a white slip. It was strange to see her
without all her layers of wool in this kind of weather, her appearance thin and
raw. No one felt sorry for her. The woman’s voluntary penance was what
confused Cricket the most.
Although her husband claimed to have taken no part in abusing his niece
and nephew, he received a good beating from Cricket’s father and never heard
from him again. Cricket’s father had a reputation for valuing his family. After his
wife died, he refused to take another wife, stubbornly certain that any
stepmother would abuse his children. Anyone could be wrong in the head these
days, which the rest of the village was just starting to realize. Instead, he would
spend several days out of town, occasionally bringing home a mistress and
kicking her out in the morning before she had a chance to see his children. For
this reason, Cricket equated his promiscuity with virtue and fatherly love.
As for the dishonored uncle, he soon died a few months later when his
heart stopped beating. They said that his body was found on the floor of that
same back room where his niece and nephew had been cooped up for month.
They also said that when they carried his body out of the house to be cremated,
his corpse was surprisingly light, and could be easily carried with one arm. That
was because when he died and lost his warmth, all the fleas in his hair ran away,
leaving him empty. In death, not even the fleas wanted to be near him. Cricket

considered herself too smart to believe half of what the villagers said, but she
didn’t forget any of it.
Baby
Many years later, Cricket put both her daughters to sleep and then
massaged her husband’s shoulders while he sat on the bed. Through her
fingertips, she could feel the humidity on her husband’s shirt, hovering
somewhere between the realms of dry and sweaty. The bed felt that way too. It
was a cheap bed, the post unattached to the rest and made of plastic that was
supposed to imitate the appearance of pink marble. The tiles on the floor were
not real tiles, but one enormous sheet of vinyl with tiles painted on it, tiles of red,
blue, and peach. Behind the lace curtains were iron bars attached to the window
frames to keep the robbers out. The iron bars joined to form a grid of diamonds
and squares, creating a pattern that was so beautiful that Cricket had to draw it
on a sheet of toilet paper, which she would take it to America. Along with the
blue night breeze came the sounds of life – cars and mopeds honking, the electric
wires sizzling, the murmuring of millions of quiet sounds combined.
It was the third week of July, the hottest time of the year. While her
husband put the babies down for a nap, Cricket packed all the eating utensils,
bowls, and cups inside a box which they planned to give to a neighbor. She
paused and looked out at her garden. Baby was running around on the
cobblestones. As he ran, the leash, which was clipped to his collar, was dragging
behind him. When he saw Cricket, he stopped, breathless, and walked over to
the glass door, licking it and pawing at the latch. His brownish-gold fur bristled
with health and his eyebrows stuck out, oddly and endearingly, above his round
black eyes.

Her husband sat down next to her and lit a cigarette. It was a habit that he
had recently picked up, a habit which Cricket found distasteful.
“My brother should be here with his truck any minute,” she said to him.
“What? Why did you call your brother? It’s not safe for him to be in the
city.”
“To pick up Baby.”
She never felt the full force of the idea until she saw the tears in her
husband’s eyes. Of course Baby couldn’t go with them. No one would allow a
dog on a boat full of refugees. There was barely enough room for human
passengers. Cricket knew that if she opened the door, Baby would jump all over
her and then she would start crying at the idea of leaving him here. And then
Baby would know something was wrong. But if she didn’t open it and turned
away, Baby would be confused by her sudden coldness. She reached for the latch.
“No, don’t open it,” her husband said. “He’ll know something’s wrong.”
“I don’t believe in deception. Not even when it comes to deceiving an
animal,” she said, unhooking the latch and sliding the door open.
Later, when her brother Sovan picked up the leash to take Baby away, the
entire neighborhood could hear Baby’s wails and growls. He writhed violently
when Sovan tried to hold him, as if he wept with his whole body. Grief made
him utterly unrecognizable. So Cricket got into the back of the truck and waited
for him. At the sight of her, Baby grew silent, tears in his eyes. He seemed to
understand the trick and refused to move. Her husband climbed onto the truck
with her. Perhaps Baby was almost convinced, but not fully. Sovan climbed into
the driver’s seat and began to drive the truck away, slowly. Finally, Baby
relented and, with a big bound, jumped into the truck, after which Cricket

immediately grabbed the end of the leash and tied it to one of the bars that
protected the rear window of the truck. Sovan stopped the car so that Cricket
and her husband could jump back out. Baby started to follow them, but when he
saw that he was tied down at last, he began to howl a song that seemed to
encompass all the sorrows of life, so much so that even the neighbors, who had
gathered outside to complain, began to listen. Cricket jumped back on the truck
and cried into the fur of his neck.
Sovan shrugged. He was a teenager now, but his face retained its radiant
charm, like the baby Buddha statues that people placed in their gardens. “What a
scene,” he said, although it looked like he wanted to cry too.
Baby kept on howling. Later on, Cricket would reflect that Baby was
perfectly capable of tearing the leash with his teeth and escaping his captor. Yet
something kept him obedient to the will of his masters.
Cricket and her husband stood and watched as Baby’s figure slowly got
smaller and smaller, until his voice became a soft, resounding echo, Cricket said
to her husband, “I bet when that dog dies, he’s going to be reincarnated as a
king.”
The next day, Cricket, her husband, and the twins rode a boat to Batanes
Island in the Philippines, and from there they flew on a plane to America. They
paid for the trip with the money her husband had earned, with loans from family
members. Also, they had sold the shoe repair store, the gold bars which had been
part of her husband’s dower, as well as the land Cricket had inherited from her
father and childless uncle.
Cricket’s husband, out of a desire to keep his wife from getting depressed,
treated her even better than before, doing most of the packing and carrying;

when they were on the boat and the plane and ultimately for the rest of his life,
he fussed over Cricket even more than he did over his own children. But Cricket
was stone-faced about the whole affair. “We must save our tears for humanity,”
she said.
Soon after arriving in the States, Cricket discovered, in a tearful
conversation with Sovan over the phone, that Baby had grown violent and
refused to eat. Because Baby had already bitten several people, and because the
family could not afford to waste food on a dog that didn’t eat, he had sold Baby
to a man who raised dogs for slaughter and consumption.
For many, many years, even by the time they were fully settled into Los
Angeles, by the time they had their own place to live and slept in normal
American beds, Cricket would sometimes wake up, gasping, in the middle of the
night.
“What is it?” her husband would ask, jumping up in fear.
“I heard Baby!”
“What? What are you talking about? Baby died a long time ago!”
“But I heard him howling just outside…”
“Don’t be silly. It’s probably just some next-door dog.”
Cricket vowed that she would never give her heart to a dog again. Every
time she saw a dog walking towards her along a sidewalk, she would wrinkle
her nose in disgust and step out of the way, just to avoid it. Many more years
later, when her grandsons brought home an old dog from the pound, she
wouldn’t even go near it. “You’re setting them up for heartbreak, you know
that?” she would tell her daughter. “And the smell – you and your kids will
smell like dog and you won’t even know it.” Sometimes, her favorite grandson

would tease her, saying, “Grandma, do you like her new perm? We spent over
$50,” referring to the dog. “A dog is a dog! What’s the use?” she would say. That
statement – “A dog is a dog!” became a family favorite. Her relatives would use
it as a sort of aphorism whenever somebody spent an absurd amount of money
on something insignificant. “You paid to get dry cleaning and alterations on that
cheap blouse? A dog is a dog!”

The Only Paradise is Paradise Lost
These are all the things that Cricket had wished for, back when she was
nineteen years old and crude and worldly enough to wish for things.
First of all, she wished that the well-dressed man would come again. He
would set up his shoe repair store in the middle of Cricket’s village, which
would offer affordable services to all the villagers – as a result, the local
shoemaker would go out of business and everyone in Cricket’s family would be
able to afford shoes made out of imported leather, rubber, and synthetic textiles.
The shoes would get worn out quickly because the children liked to play soccer
near the beach, and Cricket would have to take the shoes to the repair shop.
Cricket would play with her siblings more often, to wear her shoes out faster.
The well-dressed man wouldn’t always be around because he owned other stores
along the coast but whenever he was in town, he always smoked his cigarettes at
the same spot, behind a large moss-covered rock facing the ocean. In the
mornings, after the kids ran off to do their chores, Cricket would catch him
leaning there. He would say that the smoke made him feel like there was a mask
enveloping his face.

Their courtship had to happen very quickly because she remembered how
one of her friends got beaten by her mother for sneaking out every day to talk to
a boy. According to the friend, the two of them never even held each other’s
hands. Cricket knew her father would never beat her but she was afraid he
would beat the well-dressed man or at least chase him out of town. A welldressed man should never be beaten, at least not in public.
So the marriage would happen very quickly, and after a while, when they
saved enough money, they would move to some rich country like America. Of
course, they would be poor compared to everybody else living there, but they
would make do. The two of them, along with their children, would drive around
the city, cleaning rich people’s houses. The work would be hard, but they would
do it as a family. She would have a son named Arun, which meant “morning
sun,” and a daughter named Maya, named after the Satya Buddha’s mother.
Also, by this time, nobody would call her Cricket anymore. They wouldn’t
call her by her real name either, because it was sacred. She would have to come
up with a new name by that point. Cricket was frustrated that she couldn’t think
of a good one yet, to fit in with her fantasy.
As for home, she would hardly miss it, except for one thing: sewing
clothes and blankets while sitting around a fire at the beach in the middle of the
night with the other unmarried women, telling stories. When the wind was high,
they would play a game where the women would hold a large piece of cloth by
the edges; then they would flap it as violently as they could. The winners were
whoever held onto it longest with both hands.

After many years, the well-dressed man would die, leaving a small sum of
money behind. Cricket would live the rest of her life keeping a garden, giving
alms, and buying nice dinners for people she cared about.
At the same time, Cricket wished that none of the above would actually
happen.


