Great Barrington, Massachusetts is known for its quaint, friendly town, scenic mountains, lush
woods and vast, open waters. Those are the things that the natives like to think about as opposed
to the fact that, within the last ten years, kidnappings have risen scarily. Imagine living in a place
where it’s no longer safe to go for an afternoon walk or ride your bike to get a snow cone on a
hot, summer’s afternoon. Twenty-year-old Amy Patrick has been trying to prove, for the last
eight years, that her sister ’s car accident, which claimed her life and her husband’s life, was no
accident at all, especially given the fact that her newborn twins, Emily and Tate Simpson, have
been missing since that day. The name Fisher is practically a household name around Great
Barrington. Former neonatal nurse, Paula Fisher and her architect husband, Roman, started The
New Home Foundation, an organization in which abandoned children are placed in loving homes.
What Amy found most puzzling was how their success and wealth within the community seemed
to happen overnight. One minute they were an average family living next door and the next, they
sold their two-story home in town and built a house in the woods. Something about the couple
never set right with Amy, and what better way to get insider information than to become an
insider yourself? The more time Amy spent as a sitter for Hannah and Caleb, the Fisher’s eightyear-old twins, the more she realized how they looked just like her sister and her husband, Luke.
Deciding it was now or never to affirm the vow she had taken when she was twelve, to prove her
sister’s car accident was not an accident and to find her missing niece and nephew, she managed
to get a DNA sample from them both as well as her own, and sent it off to a lab for comparison.
It took almost a month to get the results back from a lab in New York and she couldn’t believe
her eyes when she saw that her suspicions had been correct. But now what did she do? How did
she prove it? She was about to go up against two well-respected members of their community
and well-funded at that, with a team of lawyers at their beck and call. She was a nobody. With no
one to turn to except her boyfriend, Kyle Pogue, she filled him in on her sister ’s death, the
kidnapping of the twins and now the confirmed DNA results. Kyle was an out of work felon who
had been released from prison two years earlier. He was always looking for an edge to make a
quick buck and he had a plan to get the twins back and to make them rich in the process. Amy
was lucky to have a high school degree and wasn’t looking to get into anything illegal. Her plan
was much more simple. She planned on calling in sick, sneaking into the house and taking the
twins then going to the police with them and the DNA results.
“Kyle, I need your help. I can’t be there when the kids go missing. We have to go in and take
them, then go to the cops,” she told him.
“I don’t do cops, Amy. I mean, your plan is simple enough. We can just work out the details
along the way. I got this friend, Lester Casey. I know he’s fresh out of prison, but he could help
us,” he told her, though in the back of his mind, he had already formed an entirely different plan.
Amy tapped her long, manicured fingernails on the worn, leather armchair as she watched her
boyfriend, Kyle, pacing the floor. She studied the imprints his large boots left in the worn green
carpet then looked around their tiny, one-bedroom mobile home and sighed. The song Is there
life out there came to mind, though she wasn’t married and didn’t have any children of her own.
She knew if she let Kyle do it his way, they’d have money and could afford a much nicer place,
something they could definitely be proud of, but she didn’t believe in using children as pawns.
She suspected that the Fisher’s were behind most of the kidnappings the community had seen
over the last several years. Where else were they getting all of these ‘abandoned’ children from?
She made a solemn vow that she would find out the truth as well as a way to save her niece and

nephew then prove to everyone that Paula and Roman Fisher killed her sister and her husband,
then kidnapped her niece and nephew, even if it killed her.

Sixteen-year-old Kindle Abbott stretched out across her full-sized bed and ran her fingers over
the fluffy, pink comforter. She swung her feet behind her as she flipped through the magazine
laid out in front of her. Marc Jacobs released his new leather boots and if she only had two
hundred extra dollars, she could buy them. They’d go great with everything in her closet, but
convincing her mother to buy them was out of the question. She let out a sigh of frustration when
her phone rang.
“Coroner’s office,” she laughed as she answered.
“You bag em, we tag em,” her best friend Kayla finished, making them both laugh.
“So, let me guess. You’ve thrown yourself into a pit of depression while staring wishfully at the
new Marc Jacob’s boots,” Kayla told her.
“Ah, how well you know me. Then again, my bet is that you’re looking at the same boots,” she
laughed.
“So, would a girls’ night with pizza be out of the question?” Kayla asked her.
“I’m down with a girls’ night. I’m sure our parents will spring for food. It’s a total necessity,”
Kindle laughed.
“Great, so I’ll be there in an hour then,” Kayla told her. There was a knock at Kindle’s bedroom
door. She looked up to see her mom standing there holding the house phone in her hand.
“Hey, mom. Kayla is coming over for pizza and movies.”
“Five minutes ago, it would have been no problem at all but Paula Fisher is on the phone and
wants to know if you’re available tonight to watch the twins,” Kindle groaned.

“Seriously? Mom, it’s Friday night. Tyler was going to come over for pizza and movies too,”
Kindle whined.
“Kayla and Tyler can come over tomorrow and spend all day. I know you’ve got your eyes on
those new Marc Jacob boots. I’ll cover whatever you don’t have if you go sit for the Fisher’s
tonight.
“Marc Jacob ’s? Absolutely. I’ll just get Kayla to go over there with me,” Kindle agreed.
“Grab your stuff. Let’s get you to your first job.” She clapped excitedly while Kindle groaned.
“I’ll call you when I get to the Fisher’s,” Kindle told Kayla then hung up.
“Marc Jacob, you will be mine.” She clutched her small hands to her chest and sighed with
satisfaction.

FAMILY SECRETS
CHAPTER TWO

“Are you so excited?” Candace looked over at her daughter and beamed.
“Mom, it’s babysitting. I’m excited about the prospect of the new Marc Jacob’s boots,” Kindle
told her.
“If you do a good job, perhaps they’ll call you to sit for them since you’re clearly the reliable one.
Paula said Amy had known for two months they needed her to sit tonight.” Kindle shrugged then
stared out the window into the darkness. It was eight o’clock in the evening and the moon was
casting a white glow over the treetops and the black top road as they drove deeper into the woods.
“Why would they choose to live in the woods?” Kindle asked her mom.
“To hear Paula talk, it’s beautiful, quiet and peaceful.” Kindle felt a chill creeping up the back of
her neck as she watched the eerie way the tree limbs danced in the wind and cast shadows on the
Fisher’s two-story, log cabin style home. Kindle glanced at her mom who was leaning forward
over the black steering wheel and taking in the house as if it was the most magnificent thing
she’d ever seen. Kindle couldn’t help but notice the rustle of leaves and the smell of rain in the
air. Her concern was loss of electricity due to a storm. She could barely handle the thought of
being trapped in the middle of nowhere with no lights or the ability to charge her phone. At this
point, her phone was her only lifeline to civilization. She watched her mom walk up the wooden
ramp that glowed orange from the lighting along the bottom of it, and pondered whether or not
the boots were really worth this. She was already traumatized and hadn’t even met the kids yet.

FAMILY SECRETS
“Kindle,” her mother sang her name over her shoulder. Kindle groaned and pulled her phone out
of her back pocket then froze mid-way up the walkway.
“Um, mom! I have no service!” she yelled frantic. Her mom gave her an amused smile.
“Well, just think of it as a job. You can’t have phones while at work.”
“You do,” Kindle refuted.
“Well, you’re in customer service and I’m not. Plus, I’m the boss.” Kindle rolled her blue eyes
and finished walking up to the front door. Candace rang the doorbell and waited. The large,
mahogany front door reminded Kindle of something out of mid-evil times with the large bolts
around the frame and a square dead center to the top made out of iron, resembling that of tic tac
toe.
“Candace,” a petite woman with short auburn hair and long red fingernails squealed and pulled
her in for a hug. Kindle watched curiously.
“Paula, this is my daughter, Kindle. Kindle, this is Paula Fisher,” Candace introduced them.
“Nice to meet you.” Candace extended her delicate, ivory hand out to her.
“Oh no, we go in for hugs here.” Paula grabbed her and hugged her.
“I am so sorry about the short notice. We just couldn’t believe Amy canceled on us at the last
minute. We are so grateful you dropped your plans to help us out. I remember being a teenager.
Babysitting was not on my list of highlights for Friday night fun.” Paula kept an arm around
Kindle’s small waist as she led them inside. To her amazement, the inside was extraordinarily
decorated and was completely modern with a white furniture set and marble tables. When she
had kids, she was never getting anything white. Maybe not even white shirts.

FAMILY SECRETS
“Okay-” Paula started just as a rather tall, attractive man with light brown hair and blue eyes
descended the stairs fixing the cummerbund at his wrists. Paula smiled up at her husband.
“Now, don’t you look dashing in your black tux,” she told him.
“I knew, one day, you were going to get me to dress like a penguin.” Roman teased, making
everyone laugh and easing some of the tension in the room.
“I was just telling Kindle that Hannah and Caleb are already in bed upstairs. They watch movies
in their rooms until about ten. Their TV’s are set on timers so you don’t have to worry about
turning them off. They’ve already had dinner and they keep a bottle of water on their bedside
tables. Basically, you’re just here to make sure they don’t burn the house down while we’re
gone,” Paula joked and made Kindle laugh.
“I’m pretty sure I can handle it,” Kindle told her with a smile, though she wasn’t really smiling
on the inside.
“We have a landline since it is nearly impossible to get cell service out here. We left our
numbers on the fridge. Feel free to call us for anything. If we don’t answer right away, don’t
worry, we’ll call you back. If it’s an emergency, call your parents. They have our permission to
handle any emergencies,” Paula told her as she hugged Candace on her way out and then Kindle
before slipping her arm through Roman’s.
“Call me for anything,” Candace told her, then hugged her bye again. Before Kindle could even
blink, everyone was gone and she was left standing alone on the top step of a shiny, wood floor,
three-stair drop that led into the living room. She let out a long sigh and made her way
downstairs and bypassed the living room and headed straight for the kitchen. She opened the
“smart” stainless steel fridge that informed her when she had the doors open for longer than a

FAMILY SECRETS
minute. The monotone, female voice startled her and elicited a yelp. She grabbed a can of coke
out and slammed the doors in protest. She turned and leaned against the black and grey marble
island top and stared into what looked like a rainforest with a pool.
“Fascinating,” she murmured and opened her drink as she walked through a set of double glass
doors into a hallway and through another set of glass doors that opened up into the indoor pool
area. She turned in a circle on the rock that made up the walkway, admiring all the greenery and
flowers. She listened to the trickle of the waterfall that was built into the top portion of the pool
and flowed into the crisp, clear water below. She was fascinated at the steam rising up from the
water and then evaporating into thin air. She bent down and ran her fingers through the water,
surprised to find it so warm. She was just getting to her feet when she heard what sounded like a
door slamming behind her. She spun, almost losing her balance and falling into the pool. She
looked around her as the steam from the pool seemed to be getting thicker, making it difficult to
see. She hurried toward the doors, coughing as the air turned thin. She tripped over something in
front of the doors on her way out but didn’t stop to see what it was. She spun, slammed the glass
doors closed, listening to them rattling as she pressed her back against them and gasped for a
breaths of air. To her left, she heard a creaking sound that made her play the best statue ever. She
held her breath and focused her eyes in the direction the sound had come from. Her heart was
beating so hard she could feel it pounding in her ribs.
“Hannah? Caleb?” she called out in a shaky voice. She pushed off the doors and walked slowly,
putting one foot in front of the other as if walking a tight rope with no mat beneath her. She
walked into the living room, which was noticeably dark and creepy for lack of a better word. She
walked with purpose to the remote sitting on the top of the white marble table top and turned on

FAMILY SECRETS
the flat screen. She could hear the howl of the wind outside followed by a scratching sound at the
windows. She closed her eyes and exhaled slowly.
“It’s just the wind, Kindle. It’s just the wind,” she told herself over and over again. She spotted
the cordless phone across the living room next to an oversized, white, microfiber chair. She all
but ran to it and pulled it out of the base. She dialed Kayla and was relieved when she answered.
“So, how’s work?” she teased.
“It’d be great if it wasn’t in the middle of nowhere and creepy as crap. I mean, I don’t know if
it’s just me or the fact that I’ve watched entirely too many murder shows, but get your butt over
here, like now,” Kindle told her.
“Text me the address. Consider me on the way,” Kayla told her then hung up. Kindle bit her lip
and dialed her boyfriend, Tyler, next.
“Hello?” he asked confused.
“Hey Ty, it’s me,” she told him.
“Hey, babe. Where are you?” he asked curiously.
“At the Fisher’s house doing a last minute sitting job. Their regular girl canceled last minute and
my mom was nice enough to volunteer me and then bribe me with Marc Jacob boots,” she told
him and made him laugh.
“Text me the address babe,” he told her.
“If I can get freaking service out here. Otherwise, it’s 2 Private Road,” she told him.

FAMILY SECRETS
“My dad said I could take his truck, so I’ll be there in a few. Hang tight,” he told her. She loved
him. She really, really did. She hung up, feeling better. She took her phone out of her pocket and
did a balancing act next to the front door and finally found service. She typed in the address
frantically to Kayla and waited for it to get through.
“See you soon,” she replied back. Kayla put her phone back in her back pocket then walked over
to the couch, feeling reassured that her reinforcements were on their way. She was about to sit
down when she heard a door open and close upstairs. She looked like she was about to leap
forward, from the partially bent position she was in. She stared up the stairway into complete
darkness. Her dad was most likely in his office still or she hoped that he was. She picked up the
house phone again and dialed his number.
“Abbott,” he answered.
“Hey, daddy,” she told him.
“Kindle?” he said it confused.
“Yeah, mom volunteered me to sit for your friends, the Fisher’s,” she replied.
“Well that was nice of her,” he chuckled.
“Tell me about it. Meanwhile, I’m at their nice but rather creepy house and daddy, I keep hearing
doors open and closing,” she told him.
“I see. Well, I’m actually in the middle of a case and won’t be home until late pumpkin;
otherwise, I’d volunteer to come and stay with you,” he told her.
“Daddy, you’re my hero. Thank you, but I called Kayla and Tyler from the landline and they’re
both on their way,” she said.

FAMILY SECRETS
“You think you’re going to be there later than ten?” he asked her.
“Oh yeah. They had some benefit to go to tonight for their organization,” she told him.
“Oh, that’s right. That’s tonight. Okay, well, I’ll check back on you in a bit to make sure you’re
okay. Did you take your pepper spray?” he asked her.
“It’s in my bag on the couch,” she told him. “But my cell doesn’t work really well out here,
that’s why I called you from the house phone but daddy, something doesn’t feel right here. You
said to always trust my instincts and I’m telling you, there’s something not right here,” she told
him. He listened intently as she talked.
“Call me when Tyler and Kayla get there. I want to know you aren’t alone and I’ll call your
mother and talk to her about this. I’ve almost got this case wrapped up. As soon as I’m done here,
I’ll be on my way there, but if anything else happens, anything at all-“ He was midsentence when
another door slammed from behind her. She yelped and spun.
“Kindle!” he yelled.
“Someone’s here,” she told him just as the line went dead. There was a knock at the door.
“Who is it?” she called shakily.
“Kayla and Tyler!” they yelled through the door. She exhaled slowly and opened the door.
“Boy, am I glad you’re here. Crap is freaky here; I had my dad on the phone I’m so freaked out
and then it went dead,” she told them.
“Must have been bad for you to call your dad at the office.” Tyler kissed her softly then hugged
her.

FAMILY SECRETS
“Doors are just opening and closing all over the house. It’s the creepiest thing ever. At first, I
thought it was just the wind, but now-” She paused as they stared at her quietly.
“Now I just feel like something is off. I’ve felt it since the second I walked in the door., she told
them. We’ll check it out, babe. There’s three of us here, now. We’ll go upstairs and start with the
kids’ rooms and make sure they’re safe and sound. After that, we’ll check the rest of the house.”
Tyler kissed her forehead and hugged her tight. He slipped her hand into his as the three of them
headed to the steep staircase and ascended the darkness ahead of them.

FAMILY SECRETS
CHAPTER THREE
They reached the top of the stairs and pressed their bodies together as they took another step into
the darkness. The floorboards creaked beneath their feet, sending chills up and down Kindle and
Kayla’s backs.
“Tyler.” Kindle ’s voice trembled as she whispered his name.
“I got you, babe. I got you.” He wrapped an arm around her waist and held her close to him.
They stopped in front of the first door. Tyler could just make out Kindle’s worried face as he
reached for the brass doorknob and turned it slowly. The door swung open, blowing the girls’
long hair over their shoulders. They peered into the room and frowned at the empty bed. Kindle
was on the verge of hysteria as she ran into the room. Tyler flipped the light switch up and down.
“Um, Kindle, there’s no electricity,” Tyler said it slowly. Kindle ran to the bathroom and opened
the door. She pulled the dinosaur curtain back and peered at the empty bathtub while Tyler
opened the bathroom cabinets.
“Empty,” they told one another. While Kayla stood in the dark bedroom, a large, cold hand that
wreaked of smoke slipped over her mouth while another wrapped around her waist and tugged
her backwards silently.
“Kayla can you check-” Kindle turned around to talk to Kayla but she wasn’t in the room now.
“Tyler, where is Kayla?” Kindle asked worried.
“Calm down, baby. Calm down. She probably just walked down to Hannah ’s room, ” he told her
gently, then took her hand in his. They left Caleb’s room then walked two doors down to
Hannah’s room and opened her door.

FAMILY SECRETS
“Tyler!” Kindle yelled, panicked when her bed was empty too. Tyler didn’t want to admit this
was beginning to scare him just a little bit, but he had to be the stable one considering his longtime girlfriend was about to lose her complete cool. Kindle let him lead her back down the steep
stairway in the hopes they would find Kayla and the twins downstairs. She noticed immediately
the TV was off.
“We didn’t turn that off,” she told him. He walked over and tried turning it on and shook his
head. The house was in darkness now with the exception of moonlight spilling in through the
uncovered windows downstairs. Tyler picked up the cordless phone and pushed the talk button.
It beeped then gave no indication of a dial tone.
“And this phone just worked, right?” he asked her. Kindle nodded quickly and chewed her lower
lip then jumped and screamed when a door slammed. Tyler took her hand in his and led her
down the hallway then paused outside the doors that led to the pool room.
“What’s in there?” Tyler pointed to the steam filled room.
“The pool and like a rainforest,” she told him. He opened the door slowly, letting white smoke
billow into the hallway. Through the thick smoke, they could make out something floating in the
water and both ran forward.
“Kayla!” Kindle screamed and reached forward, grabbed the girl’s body and turned her over then
screamed bloody murder and fell backwards away from the pool. Tyler grabbed her and ran to
the hallway and slammed the doors closed.
“Get out of here now, Kindle! Run! Take my father’s truck!” he yelled and shoved the keys into
her hand then pushed her to the front door.

FAMILY SECRETS
“I’m afraid no one is leaving here.” They spun to face the deep male voice. Kindle screamed and
leapt backwards away from the barrel of the gun.
“Who are you? What do you want? ” Tyler demanded and pushed Kindle behind his tall,
muscular frame.
“Who I am is not as important as what I want. I want the twins. Tell me where they are and I
might let your friend live,” he told them.
“Kayla,” Kindle cried.
“Pretty girl. She’s with my friend right now. Just FYI, he’s an escaped convict and these twins
are our meal ticket to an island with no extradition.”
“We don’t know where the twins are. Just get your friend and leave,” Tyler told him.
“I wish I could believe you. I really do,” the stranger told him then shoved him backward and
grabbed Kindle, pointing the gun at her temple.
“Now, you will play ball with me or I’m afraid this night will be the last night you see this
beauty queen alive, ” Kyle told Tyler. Tyler held his hands up in the air.
“Now, my friend Lester Casey overheard your girlfriend on the phone with her daddy. Turns out,
he’s the man who sent him to prison and he wants revenge. So, we’re going to give Agent Abbott
a call and let him know we’re holding his daughter hostage.” Kyle went on as he nudged Tyler
toward the stairs with his big booted foot. The three of them walked up the creaking staircase.
Tyler glanced at Kindle and nodded his head slowly. She threw her elbow back and landed it to
Kyle’s jaw then ran as Tyler wrestled with the gun. She heard it go off and screamed as she ran
into the first room she came to. She sprinted to the bedside table and opened it. Inside, she found

FAMILY SECRETS
a black handgun and pulled it out then dropped to the floor and said a silent prayer that her phone
would work this one time. She called her dad and waited.
“Kindle?” he asked panicked.
“Daddy! Daddy, help me! Daddy! Daddy! There’s an escaped convict named Lester Casey and
he’s in the house with his friend! And there’s a dead woman in the pool, the kids are missing and
they have Kayla and I ran and the gun went off and I don’t know what happened to Tyler!” she
screamed. She looked up briefly then down at her phone and felt sick. Her phone had lost service
and she had no way of knowing whether or not he had heard anything she said.
“Kindle Abbott! I have your friends!” she heard Kyle taunting her from the hallway. She crawled
under the bed and came out the other side just as Kyle walked into the room.
“Get up!” Kyle yelled at her. Kindle clutched the gun in her hand as she stared at the barrel of
Kyle’s, which was pointed straight at her.
“Drop your gun!” she yelled at him.
“You don’t have the guts to pull that trigger!” he laughed at her. She squeezed the trigger then
flew backwards as the gun kicked. As she sat on the floor at Kyle’s head crying, she heard a door
slam downstairs then yelling and feet pounding up the stairs.
“Federal Agents!” she heard the yells.
“Daddy! I’m Kindle Abbott! In here!” she screamed from her place on the floor.
“Kindle!” Her dad slid on his knees and pulled her into his arms. Another agent took the gun
from her hand and put it in a bag.
“It’s okay, baby.” He held her face in his hands then kissed her forehead.

FAMILY SECRETS

FAMILY SECRETS
CHAPTER FOUR
The moonlight was not the only light outside the Fisher home any longer. Now, red and blue
lights flashed and radios crackled. The twins had been found in a secret wall in their playroom.
Lester Casey had been apprehended and Kayla was scared but unharmed. From the safety of
Tyler’s arms Kindle watched her father working. They watched as Amy and Kyle’s bodies were
taken out on gurneys. Just when she thought the night of horrors was complete, Paula and Roman
Fisher were put in handcuffs and charged with two counts of murder and kidnapping in
connection with the mysterious deaths of Danielle and Lucas Simpson and the kidnapping of
their newborn twins, Emily and Tate Simpson, AKA Hannah and Caleb Fisher. Her father made
his way over to them and hugged them both then kissed the top of Kindle’s blonde head.
“Why are you arresting the Fisher’s?” Kindle asked him.
“The case we were working on was a kidnapping that happened several years ago when Paula
Fisher was still a neonatal nurse. This afternoon, we received DNA results that proved the
Fishers’ children were, in fact, our missing children from an ongoing murder investigation of
their parents. The crazy thing was, Amy Patrick, the woman you found dead in the pool used to
be their sitter and she is also their aunt. She’s the one who sent us the DNA results. I’m only
sorry we weren ’t able to get here sooner and save her.
“Kindle!” She heard her mother yelling her name as she ran toward them.
“Candace,” Reed Abbott pulled his wife into his arms and kissed her.
“She’s all right. She’s all right.” He told her gently as the three of them hugged.

FAMILY SECRETS
“I’ve decided you’re not working. You might not ever leave the house again. Not ever. I’ll buy
your boots and Tyler and Kayla, if their parents let them, can come to the house tonight for pizza
and movies. After all of this, everyone needs to unwind.” Candace told her. Kindle couldn’t help
but laugh at this as Kayla and Tyler both agreed a night of pizza and movies was definitely in
order.
“I started to say I couldn’t wait for this night of horrors to end, but now, I can’t wait to go home
and eat pizza and watch movies with you,” she told Tyler. Tyler cupped Kindle’s face in his
hands and covered her mouth with his, enveloping her in a much needed kiss.


