It’s  difficult  to  reconstruct  the  events  that  led  up  to  the  moment  a  neighbor  
almost  bludgeoned  me  to  death  with  a  yellow  Le  Creuset  casserole  dish.  My  
intentions  were  good.  I  know  that  without  having  to  analyze  the  situation  further.  
My  intentions  were  good,  but  my  reasoning  was  off.  Since  good  thought  processes  
lead  to  good  outcomes  in  the  best  of  all  possible  worlds,  as  everyone  can  agree,  
obviously  my  thinking  was  not  so  good.    
I’ll  start  at  the  beginning.    
That  last  summer  I  began  to  avoid  5-­‐-­‐  1st  Street,  because  it  smelled.  It  stank  
strongly  of  mildew  mixed  with  other  mysterious,  noxious  odors  reminiscent  of  open  
coffins,  although  as  a  Jew  I’ve  never  been  to  a  funeral  with  an  open  coffin  and  can  
only  approximate  in  my  imagination  what  the  smell  reminded  me  of.    
Even  though  the  moldy  air  felt  degrees  cooler  on  that  nearly  always  shadowy  
side  of  the  street,  I  went  out  of  my  way  to  avoid  the  brownstone  and  its  smells  as  if  I  
were  a  kid  again  afraid  of  a  haunted  house.  I  pushed  my  stroller  and  my  little  blonde  
shiksa  baby  the  long  way  home,  up  2nd  Street,  turning  back  to  1st  Street  at  Eighth  
Avenue.    
I  didn’t  know  it  then,  but  I  found  out  later  that  I  knew  the  owner  of  this  
deranged  domicile.  Or  we  had  a  passing  acquaintance,  that  is  to  say  we  had  
Starbucks  in  common.  She  and  I  arrived  at  Starbucks  at  the  same  times  in  the  
mornings  and  again  in  the  evenings.    
I  hate  admitting  it  was  Starbucks.  True  it  was  convenient,  the  closest  café  to  
my  apartment.  More  important,  required  by  corporate  law,  its  barristas  were  the  
friendliest  in  that  stolidly  bourgeois  barrio  where  a  cold  formality  ruled.  I  even  liked  
the  old  lady’s  brownstone  with  its  spunky  air  of  decrepitude;  at  least  I  did  before  it  
began  to  smell  of  death  that  summer.    
Wedged  between  two  prosperous,  snug  facades,  her  place  appeared  even  
more  derelict  and  strange,  like  a  shipwrecked  vessel  washed-­‐up  on  the  calm  shores  
of  this  well-­‐to-­‐do,  little  bourg  in  Brooklyn.  Rows  upon  rows  of  identically  smug,  
well-­‐kept,  century-­‐old  homes,  and  lo,  there  she  was:  defiantly  snaggle-­‐toothed  with  
broken  windows  and  a  variegated  collection  of  pure  junk  on  the  stoop.    
Trash  and  more  unabashed  trash  there  was  in  the  dooryard,  the  box  garden  
where  other  neighbors  planted  their  imported,  stunted  decorative  trees.  Trees  that  I  
strangely  pitied,  as  if  nature,  too,  was  only  palatable  when  it  bent  and  twisted  to  our  
fancy,  like  beckoning  houris  frozen  forever  in  pathetically  pleasing  poses.    
Later  that  summer,  on  a  hot  evening  when  even  the  sidewalks  seemed  to  
emanate  heat  as  if  they’d  become  shoe-­‐baking  ovens,  I  was  trying  to  explain  to  my  
irritable,  sweating  husband  why  we  should  take  the  long  way  around  back  home.    
We  had  gone  to  get  pizza  in  a  little  pizzeria  tucked  away  on  7th  Avenue,  the  
one  with  a  gorgeous  view  of  the  big,  Brooklyn  sky  and  a  less  gorgeous  view  of  the  
public  school’s  basketball  court.  But  if  you  squinted  your  eyes  and  only  paid  
attention  to  the  hanging  vines  of  the  community  garden  and  the  pale,  rosy  tinctures  
of  the  sky,  you  could  almost  pretend  you  were  in  Italy.  My  husband  had  refused  to  
even  try.  Subsequently,  I  wasn’t  in  a  very  good  mood  either.    
“At  least  let’s  cross  the  street.  Don’t  you  smell  it?  I  know  you  can,  can’t  you?”  I  
peppered  my  husband  with  these  questions  in  that  cross  voice  that  I  reserve  for  him  
alone.  I’m  always  embarrassed  when  strangers  overhear  me  speak  in  these  shrill  
tones,  and  then  it’s  almost  as  if  my  embarrassment  is  an  apology,  although  I’m  not  
sure  to  whom.    
It’s  as  if  that  voice  is  another  self,  the  cross,  harassed  housewife,  and  me,  I’m  
someone  else  entirely.  Someone  much  kinder,  much  more  reasonable.  Then  behind  
me  as  my  voice  became  too  shrill,  too  nagging  even  to  my  own  ears,  I  could  sense  as  
much  as  hear  a  movement,  someone  crossing  the  path  very  close  upon  where  our  
footsteps  might  have  left  the  uneven  paving  stones  warmer  still.    
When  I  turned  around,  embarrassed,  I  saw  it  was  the  neat-­‐figured,  little,  
silver-­‐haired  lady  from  the  Starbucks.  Absurdly,  I  tried  to  smile  at  her  the  way  I  
smiled  at  her  every  morning  and  evening  as  we  stood  in  the  long  line,  waiting  to  rev  
our  engines  like  cars  at  a  gas  station  during  a  gasoline  shortage.    
Perhaps  she  simply  didn’t  recognize  me  outside  our  usual  interactions.  
Perhaps  she’d  overheard  me  and  was  angry.  Only  she  didn’t  seem  angry.  She  held  
her  head  in  an  eminently  normal  way,  not  lofty  or  bowed,  not  proud  or  penitent.  
What  was  most  striking  about  her  was  how  neat  and  dignified  she  looked,  opening  
the  creaking  gate  and  sailing  up  the  steps  treacherously  loaded  with  broken  mirrors  
and  jagged  strips  of  rusty  metal.    

Good  Neighbors    

4  

Most  of  all,  she  didn’t  look  anything  like  I’d  imagined  the  owner  of  such  a  
witchy  residence  would  look.  She  didn’t  so  much  as  look  like  an  aging  baby  boomer,  
an  ex-­‐hippy  making  a  political  stand  or  an  artist  making  another  kind  of  stand.  She  
looked  like  the  eternal  grandmother,  living  in  the  house  of  the  eternal  witch.    
I  remembered  her  then  as  well,  a  moment  too  late,  from  our  Starbucks  
encounters.  The  impression  I  had  of  her  became  even  stranger,  because  she  had  
seemed  so  ordinary  in  the  café,  although  she  never  smiled  back.  Still,  I  was  used  to  
that  from  ¾  of  the  neighborhood.    
  
  

  

  

  

*****  

I  don’t  know  why  Brooklyn  still  has  a  reputation  as  a  neighborhoody  place.  
Either  I  was  misinformed  or  it’s  an  old  custom  that’s  fading  away  now  that  it’s  
become  a  suburb  of  Manhattan.  Why,  once  in  a  raw  food  restaurant,  when  I  was  
merely  being  polite  to  a  waitress,  she  asked  me  if  I  was  Canadian.    
“No,”  I  said,  thinking  she  meant  my  odd  accent,  which  many  New  Yorkers  
frequently  remark  on.    
“It’s  just  that  you’re  so  nice,”  she  replied  with  a  shrug  of  her  shoulders.  This  
shrug  had  the  effect  of  making  me  feel  supremely  sad  although  I  still  left  her  a  big  
tip,  trapped  as  I  felt  by  this  meaningless  word,  one  that  was  once  so  precise:  “nice”.  
  
  
  

  

  

  

*****    

Good  Neighbors    

5  

I  didn’t  go  to  Starbucks  again  for  several  weeks,  but  not  because  I  was  
avoiding  the  lady  who  lived  at  5-­‐-­‐  1st  Street,  but  only  because  life  can  interrupt  our  
most  entrenched  routines  sometimes.  A  few  weeks  later,  I  had  occasion  to  think  of  
the  little  silver-­‐haired  lady  again,  although  I  hadn’t  completely  forgotten  her  in  the  
meanwhile.    
It  was  as  if  in  overhearing  the  short,  bitter  exchange  meant  only  for  my  
husband’s  ears  she’d  fixed  me  as  that  person  permanently—the  person  I  only  was  
with  my  husband  when  I  was  annoyed.  And  even  worse,  in  overhearing  me,  I’d  
become  as  well  the  cruel  person  who’d  taunt  a  crazy  old  lady  outside  her  abode  
instead  of,  for  example,  the  doting  mother  of  a  young  child  who  was  polite  to  
waitresses.  Worse,  my  husband  teased  me  about  it  every  time  we  took  the  long  way  
around  her  residence,  and  I  couldn’t  get  the  incident  out  of  my  mind.    
However,  I  really  began  to  think  of  her,  after  I  witnessed  a  very  different  kind  
of  calamity  from  the  ancient  shipwreck  that  was  her  crumbling  home.    
It  was  really  as  if  she  alone  lived  on  the  edge  of  the  wide  sea  and  all  the  
detritus  of  the  world  washed  up  on  her  shores.  She  seemed  incapable  somehow,  or  
perhaps  merely  unwilling,  of  clearing  it  off  on  her  own.    
  
  

  

  

  

*****  

Compared  to  this  long,  drawn-­‐out  process  of  ruin,  this  other  calamity  was  
quick  and  brutal,  an  accident  no  one  could  have  prevented.  I  was  walking  the  dog,  
when  I  heard  the  screams,  a  great  wave  of  screams  coming  from  all  sides  with  crests  
and  troughs.    

Good  Neighbors    

6  

Half  a  block  away,  a  little  boy  tripped  at  the  very  edge  of  the  park  and  fell  into  
traffic.  At  first  there  were  only  the  screams  and  then  worse,  there  was  a  spreading,  
rippling  silence  that  came  just  as  the  gloom  of  evening  made  a  figurative  death  of  the  
day.    
There  were  confused  whispers  that  he’d  been  chasing  his  ball  across  the  
street.  We  tried  to  piece  together  in  the  darkness  the  chain  of  events  leading  to  the  
calamity,  as  if,  in  piecing  it  together,  we  could  prevent  the  initial  mistake.    
Horns  shrieked  as  the  cops  closed  off  the  intersection.  A  bottleneck  quickly  
formed  on  either  side  of  the  roped-­‐off  scene.    
“What  kind  of  parents  wouldn’t  teach  their  child  not  to  chase  a  ball  into  the  
street?”  Those  were  words  I  remember  someone  uttering,  perhaps  it  was  me?  Kind  
as  I  am,  I  could  have  easily  said  these  sharp  words  as  I’ve  demonstrated.  It  was  
difficult  in  that  moment  to  separate  what  was  mine  and  what  was  another’s.  We  
were  all  neighbors  suddenly,  hundreds  of  us,  old-­‐time  neighbors,  old-­‐time  Brooklyn  
neighbors  just  like  in  the  stories.    
A  great  groan  went  up  from  us  when  the  EMTs  lifted  his  little  body  from  the  
street.  I  remember  the  great  quantity  of  vibrant-­‐looking  hair  springing  up  in  a  halo  
of  black  curls  around  his  wan,  pale  face.    
There  were  dark  pools  of  blood  all  over  the  intersection  as  if,  like  a  ball,  he  
had  been  rolled  first  one  place  and  then  another  before  coming  to  rest  forever.    
All  of  us  had  become  part  of  this  accident  as  much  as  the  little  boy  and  the  driver,  
who  sat  in  a  police  cruiser  looking  stunned  but  not  at  all  unhappy,  his  van  parked  on  
the  opposite  side  of  the  street.  He  was  a  Latino  man,  hard  to  say  from  where  exactly  

Good  Neighbors    

7  

without  speaking  to  him,  not  young  or  old.  I  remember  most  he  didn’t  look  afraid  or  
unhappy  but  not  in  a  disrespectful  way,  more  like  an  actor  who  didn’t  know  how  to  
play  the  scene  and  wasn’t  giving  it  enough  emotion.    
Perhaps  I  was  simply  not  equipped  to  pass  those  judgments.  I  tugged  on  the  
leash,  and  I  walked  home.  It  was  night  now.  A  moment  later  a  pitbull  lunged  at  my  
dog.  I  shook  myself  awake,  shocked  by  another  near  calamity.    
I  knew  better  than  to  let  my  guard  down  in  the  New  York  City  streets,  sudden  
neighborhood  feelings  or  not.    
I  was  no  child.    
  
  

  

  

  

****  

Later  it  came  out  that  the  boy  hadn’t  been  chasing  his  ball  into  the  street.  
He’d  simply  tripped  on  his  cleats  and  tumbled  over,  crushed  by  a  speeding  van.  He  
died.    
The  entire  neighborhood  united  in  palpable  grief  for  this  one  boy.  The  next  
day  I  saw  on  Twitter  that  another  person,  probably  grown,  was  crushed  by  another  
speeding  van  only  blocks  away,  but  this  incident  passed  away  unnoticed.    
I’ve  always  been  fascinated  by  why  certain  tragedies  engage  our  
imaginations  and  others  don’t,  others  simply  don’t  count  at  all.  Possibly,  we  were  all  
so  horrified  because  the  boy  was  so  young  and  sweet.  We  all  read  his  Bar  Mitzvah  
statement  online,  and  many  of  us  attended  his  funeral,  strangers  until  then,  
mourning  together  with  a  grief  that  felt  unquenchable  as  if  we’d  known  him  before  
he’d  become  nothing  more  than  the  unfortunate  consequence  of  a  too  lax  police  

Good  Neighbors    

8  

system,  allowing  cars  to  treat  the  streets  of  New  York  like  a  drag  race.  He  was  buried  
at  Greenwood  Cemetery  only  two  days  after  his  death,  the  Jews  do  these  things  very  
quickly.    
Later  that  fall,  I  attended  a  Hallowe’en  writing  class  in  the  cemetery,  
forgetting  its  connection  to  the  boy  until  the  last  minute,  and  thought  of  looking  for  
his  grave  to  pay  further  respects.  We  were  meant  to  roam  around  the  cemetery,  
recording  names  for  characters.  Our  teacher  joked  she  was  from  Salem  and  
consequently  grew  up  loving  cemeteries.  
“Cemeteries  are  a  great  resource  for  writers,”  she  told  us  as  if  they  didn’t  
exist  for  other  purposes.  She  wore  a  hideously  ornate  cross  on  a  black  ribbon,  which  
I  hoped  she’d  only  donned  for  class.  I  never  thought  cemeteries  were  gruesome  
before,  but  remembering  the  boy  was  there,  her  glee  made  the  exercise  ghoulish.  
  I  left  early  much  to  her  displeasure.  It  felt  contrived  on  my  part,  going  to  
weep  at  his  fresh  grave,  so  I  didn’t  go  looking.  I  also  must  admit  the  death  of  this  boy  
felt  similar  to  reading  about  a  death  in  a  brilliant  story.    
Afterwards,  after  reading  a  book  like  The  Mill  on  the  Floss,  I  might  cry  that  a  
character  died,  but  I’d  quickly  forget.  In  this  same  way,  this  unknown  boy  was  only  a  
character  to  me,  but  it  was  a  story  life  had  told  me  with  certain  details  that  I  couldn’t  
forget.    
For  some  reason,  as  I  left  the  cemetery,  I  felt  comforted  a  little  when  I  saw  
the  improbably  green  parrots  that  made  their  nest  in  the  gate’s  towers.  I  hoped  the  
boy’s  mother  had  seen  them  and  been  comforted,  too.    
Most  of  all,  I  was  reminded  that  life  could  be  very  beautiful  and  very  strange.    

Good  Neighbors    

9  

  
  

  

  

  

  

****  

All  this  is  to  say,  I  was  stunned  by  the  outpouring  of  affection  and  help  from  
the  people  in  the  neighborhood  towards  the  boy’s  parents  and  wanted  to  encourage  
such  a  feeling  in  myself,  ashamed  that  leaving  food  or  flowers  hadn’t  occurred  to  me.  
It  was  a  side  of  the  neighborhood  that  I  had  either  never  seen,  leftover  from  the  
rumored,  good  old  days  despite  the  neighborhood’s  growing  reputation  for  being  a  
place  where  wealthy  people  lived  selfish  lives.    
Although  my  husband  and  I  might  have  been  considered  wealthy  elsewhere  
in  America,  because  of  his  steady  paycheck  in  uncertain  times,  here  we  rented  a  1.5  
bedroom,  unable  to  afford  a  two  bedroom.  We’d  wanted  the  apartment  for  the  sake  
of  the  child,  for  the  benefits  of  living  near  the  park,  but  the  paradise  rubbed  off  the  
park  with  the  death  of  the  boy.  Every  time  I  passed  the  spot,  I  thought  of  the  boy’s  
death  agony.  We  decided  to  move  away.    
Before  we  moved,  I  thought  again  of  how  the  neighbors  had  come  together  to  
support  the  boy’s  parents.  Hordes  of  strangers  and  friends  alike  left  flowers,  food,  
cards,  letters.  Someone  in  the  dark  of  that  first  night  built  a  shrine  against  the  
moveable  police  barricade  that  blocked  traffic  from  entering  the  park,  twining  the  
metal  with  flowers  and  signs,  pictures  of  the  dead  boy’s  bright  face,  cards  and  teddy  
bears.    
It  was  an  awful,  heart-­‐rending  metal  and  paper  thing.  The  leaves  piled  up  
against  it;  the  rain  quickly  turned  the  signs  to  tatters,  but  they  were  replaced.  If  it  
comforted  the  mother,  I’m  glad.  It  was  an  ugly  wreck,  but  evidently  it  comforted  

Good  Neighbors    

10  

someone,  because  it  was  tended  by  an  invisible  hand,  kept  neat  and  clean  as  a  grave,  
but  it  was  a  tawdry  thing.  
I  couldn’t  forget  the  mother’s  grief  at  the  funeral  either,  so  sharp  and  raw.  
She  was  stooped  and  gray-­‐haired  as  if  she  had  greatly  aged  since  his  death,  but  it  
had  only  been  two  days.  She  gave  the  impression  her  hair  had  turned  ashen  gray  
with  grief.  From  the  pictures,  you  could  see  the  boy  resembled  his  father,  dark  and  
lean.    
Coincidentally,  that  morning,  my  own  sweet,  gurgling  baby  finally  learned  to  
wave  hello  after  months  of  encouragement;  she  was  stunned  when  none  of  the  
mourners  waved  back.  I  could  see  her  baby  confusion.  I  wanted  to  shout  at  these  
people,  who  were  never  my  neighbors.  It  was  as  if  I  was  always  invisible,  never  
belonging,  always  on  the  move.    
I  wanted  to  say,  “Just  wave  at  the  damn  baby!  It’s  not  her  fault!”  Then  I  had  to  
leave  the  funeral  when  the  baby  began  to  yip  with  frustration.  Her  yips  removed  me  
enough  that  I  felt  the  shame  of  being  only  a  spectator,  as  if  the  family—the  bitter  
grandmother,  the  calm,  capable  uncles,  the  grief-­‐stunned  parents—  were  all  
characters  I  was  watching  in  a  play.  
I  did  cry  when  the  mother  made  her  confession  to  us,  speaking  from  her  
heart  as  if  to  herself  alone.  How  often  in  life  do  we  hear  these  confessions  of  the  
heart,  when  we  are  not  a  priest  or  a  therapist?  Not  often.      
“Life  seems  very  long,”  she  said.  “And  I  want  to  go  into  the  night  with  you.  I  
want  to  die,  too.”  

Good  Neighbors    

11  

I  wept  with  her,  but  I  was  ashamed  of  myself  somehow.  I  knew  that  my  tears  
were  just  as  profuse  when  a  character  died  in  a  play.  I  had  wanted  to  care,  and  I  did,  
but  I  began  to  see  I  was  engineering  my  own  involvement,  and  that  I  had  my  own  
baby  to  tend  to  and  my  own  tragedies  that  would  surely  come  one  day,  if  only  the  
tragedy  of  her  growing  up  and  no  longer  reaching  for  me  first.    
We  left,  and  a  pallbearer  helped  me  carry  her  pink  umbrella  stroller  with  its  
pattern  of  ice  cream  cones  down  the  steps.  And  then  we  walked  away  from  the  
funeral  to  Starbucks,  because  I  needed  someone  to  smile  at  me  and  someone  to  
wave  at  the  baby  even  if  they  were  only  paid  to.  
  

  

****  

Still,  I  was  ashamed  that  I  couldn’t  care  more,  care  in  a  way  that  was  deeper  
than  caring  about  the  horrible  ending  of  The  Mill  on  the  Floss  or  Princess  Diana’s  
tragic  death.  I  think  that’s  why  it  occurred  to  me  that  I  should  try  to  make  it  up  to  
the  old  woman  who  lived  at  5-­‐-­‐  1st  Street.    
I  did  care  that  I’d  hurt  her  feelings,  and  after  that  summer  when  I  broke  my  
routine,  I  didn’t  see  her  in  Starbucks  any  longer.  Perhaps  she  was  sick?  Lonely?    
I  could  feel  I  was  engineering  my  involvement  again,  but  it  also  felt  right,  
neighborly.  I  wondered  how  many  of  the  neighbors  who  left  food  or  cards  for  the  
boy’s  parents  had  done  it  out  of  duty  and  how  many  had  genuinely  cared.  I  cared  
about  the  boy’s  death,  but…  Even  now  thinking  about  it,  I  can  drum  up  tears.  At  the  
same  time,  it  remains  in  my  memory  the  same  as  when  Bambi’s  mother  died—
unspeakably  sad  but  not  real  somehow.    

Good  Neighbors    

12  

So  I  decided  to  visit  the  old  lady.  The  gate  was  rusted,  so  naturally  it  creaked  
loudly,  protesting  my  actions  like  some  horro  movie  cliché.  I  laughed  at  my  sudden  
disquiet.  I’d  left  my  baby  behind  with  my  husband  and  my  friendly,  little  dog,  too,  in  
case  the  woman  was  a  cat-­‐person;  she  decidedly  had  the  quiet,  self-­‐contained  ways  
of  a  cat-­‐person.    
It  was  a  Saturday.  There  were  a  lot  of  people  about,  going  to  the  farmer’s  
market,  the  flea  market,  strolling  up  and  down  7th  Avenue,  lunching  at  tables  set  up  
outside  by  the  restaurants.  It  was  very  fine  weather  for  November.    
Soon  it  would  be  cold  in  the  city.  We  all  looked  like  Frederick  the  mouse,  a  
look  of  desperate  concentration  on  our  faces,  gathering  up  color  while  we  may.  Even  
though  the  wind  was  blowing,  I  couldn’t  smell  the  fetid,  mildew  smell  I  had  smelled  
that  summer  in  the  evenings  after  the  long,  hot  days.    
My  heart  was  beating.  I  had  a  new,  yellow  Le  Creuset  casserole  dish  in  my  
hands.  I’d  made  banana  walnut  muffins,  the  only  pastry  I  can  bake,  and  I’d  also  
brought  chocolate  chip  cookies,  the  kind  you  resurrect  in  the  oven  from  the  dough.  
I  remembered  from  Starbucks  the  woman  always  bought  a  pastry,  but  I  didn’t  
remember  the  name  they  asked  for,  though  if  I  heard  it  I  would  know  it:  Serena?  
Sylvia?  Shelley?  Some  strange,  sybillant  name  from  another  era.    
Generally,  amidst  her  collection  of  glass  and  steel  on  the  stoop,  there  was  
always  a  wooden  sign  with  different  slogans  written  with  the  kind  of  chalk  children  
use  on  the  sidewalks.  Only  I  hadn’t  seen  a  sign  for  weeks.    
The  signs  would  generally  read  obscure  sayings  like,  “The  constitution  is  a  
great  thing.  Support  the  1st  Amendment.”    

Good  Neighbors    

13  

She  was  clearly  referring  to  the  zoning  laws  that  kept  the  other  houses  trim  
and  neat  forcibly  by  fines,  although  the  infractions  were  usually  of  a  much  smaller  
kind—a  garbage  can  left  out  or  an  unsorted  bag  of  recycling.    
My  landlady  had  warned  me  what  would  happen  if  we  so  much  as  put  a  
trashbag  out  at  the  wrong  hour,  but  here  in  this  dooryard,  trash  abounded,  covering  
every  inch  of  the  steps.  In  order  to  climb  the  steps,  I  had  to  tiptoe  over  2x4s.  
Scrambling  like  that,  towards  rather  than  away  from  that  door,  I  began  to  feel  even  
more  unreal  than  I’d  felt  in  the  synagogue.    
Little  piles  of  loose  nails,  jagged  mirrors,  splinters  of  wood,  rusted  buckets:  it  
looked  like  the  detritus  of  a  mad  inventor  or  a  modern  artist.  I  couldn’t  imagine  
what  use  she  made  of  it.  My  plan  was  to  leave  the  casserole  dish  with  a  card  at  the  
top  of  the  steps.  Suddenly,  that  seemed  cowardly,  and  I  slipped  the  card  in  the  
pocket  of  my  husband’s  North  Face  fleece.  I  pressed  a  finger  to  the  doorbell.  I  heard  
a  dissonant  crackle  as  if  it  needed  a  good  cough  first,  jumping  back  when  the  door  
was  immediately  opened,  nearly  tripping  over  a  plank  of  wood  laid  across  the  top  of  
the  steps  like  a  very  low  barrier  to  keep  strangers  out  or  to  keep  the  woman  in.    
“Yes,”  the  old  lady  said,  standing  back  in  the  shadows  at  the  far  edge  of  the  
door,  looking  as  mild  as  ever,  her  gray  hair  neatly  pinned  up,  wearing  the  brown  
cardigan,  knee-­‐length  skirt,  and  orthopedic  shoes  you  might  imagine  on  a  tidy  
librarian.    
I  guessed,  in  order  to  have  opened  the  door  so  swiftly,  she  must  have  been  
watching  me  from  the  window.  If  she  had  in  any  way  resembled  her  house,  this  

Good  Neighbors    

14  

might  have  caused  me  apprehension.  Instead  she  looked  so  ordinary,  I  felt  I  was  the  
strange  one.    
“I  don’t  know  if  you  remember  me,  but  I’m  a  neighbor…  I  haven’t  seen  you  at  
the  café  in  a  while.”    
The  café!  
“And  I  just  wanted  to…  I  made  these.  For  you.  I’m  Emily.  From  up  the  road.”  
“Yes,  I  remember,”  she  said  in  the  same  mild  tone,  reassuring  me  she  didn’t  
connect  me  with  the  incident  outside  her  house.  She  didn’t  tell  me  her  own  name.  
“That’s  very  nice  of  you.  Would  you  like  a  cup  of  tea,  coffee?”    
She  smiled  politely,  but  I  hesitated.  Then  she  plucked  my  casserole  dish  from  
my  hands.  I  felt  as  if  I  were  finally  penetrating  a  mystery,  a  twofold  one.  The  mystery  
of  the  house  and  the  mystery  of  Brooklyn,  as  if,  in  having  tea  with  a  neighbor,  I  was  
participating  in  some  ancient  rite,  a  rite  that  ought  to  exist  between  neighbors.    
I  followed  her  stooped,  retreating  back  down  a  hallway,  filled  with  an  
unimaginable  pile  of  coats  and  clocks,  shoes,  papers  tied  up  with  string,  bundles  
rolled  up  alongside  rugs  and  posters.  The  kitchen  was  like  a  splotch  of  brightness  at  
the  end  of  a  dark  tunnel.  As  I  made  to  go  around  a  heap  of  rugs,  she  turned  with  a  
warning  look.  
I  watched  in  horror  as  two  things  happened.  The  more  remarkable  was  how  
her  blank,  neat  face  transformed.  She  began  to  scream.  She  was  livid.  Her  air  of  
mildness  vanished.    
Why  had  I  ever  thought  she  looked  grandmotherly?  Her  eyes  bulged;  they  
were  a  washed-­‐out  blue,  and  my  own  grandmother’s  eyes  had  been  very  blue  until  

Good  Neighbors    

15  

the  end.  I  looked  into  her  eyes  where  she  stood  over  me,  outlined  against  the  
brightness  of  the  kitchen.    
And  then,  for  what  felt  like  a  good,  long  moment,  I  thought  she  was  going  to  
swing  the  casserole  dish  over  my  head  and  kill  me.  But  why  was  I  suddenly  so  much  
lower  than  she  that  she  could  bludgeon  me?  
All  these  impressions  took  only  seconds  naturally,  but  fear  has  a  way  of  
making  the  senses  piquant,  and  I  noticed  the  menace  of  the  woman  before  I  realized  
the  reason  for  it.  
My  feet  had  smashed  through  her  floor,  collapsing  along  with  the  rugs,  much  
like  Tom  Hanks  in  The  Money  Pit  when  he  sinks  through  the  floor,  although  the  
analogy  to  a  movie  didn’t  occur  to  me  at  the  time.  It  was  too  real  for  thought,  only  
for  breath  and  action.  My  hands  were  free;  only  my  feet  had  sunk  a  few  inches,  and  I  
fell  to  my  knees.  
Now  I  was  Joan  of  Arc  in  a  play;  now  I  was  a  man  kneeling  to  his  betrothed.  
Now  I  was  begging  for  my  life.    
“I’m  very,  very  sorry,”  I  kept  repeating  and  then  I  didn’t  say  anything  more  
but  only  looked  into  her  vacant  eyes.  I  would  usually  have  begun  to  cry.  I  cry  very  
easily  at  the  ends  of  books  and  about  Princess  Diana’s  tragic  death  and  about  the  
dead  boy  I  never  knew  until  the  last  excruciating  minutes  of  his  short  life.    
Only  in  this  case,  when  the  horror  was  happening  to  me,  I  felt  like  the  man  in  
the  back  of  the  police  cruiser,  the  man  who  had  killed  the  boy  only  moments  before.  
Like  him,  I  felt  curiously  calm  and  a  little  tired  under  my  alertness.  My  eyes  felt  very  
tired  and  very  old  as  they  looked  into  her  eyes.    

Good  Neighbors    

16  

Perhaps  it  was  because  I  was  so  calm,  that  she  didn’t  bring  the  dish  down  
over  my  head.  If  I  had  screamed  or  flinched  or  shouted  at  her,  she  would  have  
brought  the  dish  down  and  caved  my  skull  in.  It’s  difficult  to  explain  to  an  outside  
observer  how  this  works,  but  there  is  an  awful  moment  when  the  veil  is  drawn  back  
a  little  and  you  can  see  the  manner  of  your  death,  the  possibility  of  it  sharpens  the  
senses  and  also  brings  a  resigned  sadness.    
Perhaps  others  have  experienced  it  differently,  but  that  has  been  my  
experience  in  those  moments  when  I’ve  courted  death:  once  when  I  crossed  paths  
with  a  bear  on  a  hiking  trail,  and  I  simply  turned  my  back  and  held  very  still.  And  
then,  the  time  a  homeless  man  mugged  me  in  the  laundromat  in  the  middle  of  the  
day.  
On  all  those  occasions,  I  became  as  I  was  then,  stuck  in  the  old  woman’s  floor,  
half-­‐kneeling  and  penitent.  I  became  very  still  and  sad  and  very  quiet,  scarcely  
breathing.  Each  time  my  attacker  let  me  go.    
I  could  feel  my  heart  beating  very  loudly  and  steadily  in  my  ears  as  if  
someone  were  playing  a  drum  inside  of  me.  The  air  was  bright  with  refracted  beams  
of  light  in  that  dusty  space.  Eventually,  she  dropped  my  gaze  and  simply  walked  
away  muttering.  I  could  hear  her  in  the  kitchen,  putting  the  dish  that  she  almost  
killed  me  with  on  the  counter  with  a  clanging  sound  that  made  me  wince.    
Then  I  extricated  myself  a  little  too  quickly,  scraping  my  leg  again.  It  was  cut  
and  bleeding.  It  was  warm  enough  that  fall  day  that,  unfortunately,  I’d  been  wearing  
capri  leggings  and  my  ankle  had  sustained  a  jagged  cut  that  later  left  a  scar.    

Good  Neighbors    

17  

Of  course  I  shared  this  strange  story  with  my  family  immediately.  My  
excitable,  Jewish  mother  wanted  me  to  call  the  police,  but  I  remembered  what  had  
happened  when,  at  the  insistence  of  pedestrians,  I  tried  to  report  the  mugging  in  the  
laundromat.  When  I  had  tried  to  convey  the  menace,  they’d  laughed  at  me.    
“At  first  he  held  me  down  in  the  chair.  He  held  the  arms  of  the  chair  actually,  
and  he  bent  down  over  me  as  if  he  was  going  to  kiss  me.  He  had  a  red  pencil  skirt  
someone  had  left  behind  and  he  used  it  to  pin  my  lap.  Then—“  
“I  wish  a  girl  would  try  to  force  me  to  kiss  her,”  one  cop  interrupted.  I  kept  
reciting  the  facts,  but  his  grin  threw  me  off.  I  felt  as  if  I  was  gossiping  with  my  
girlfriends  about  boys.    
“I  jumped  up  and  he  grabbed  me  by  my  ponytail.  Very  hard.  It  still  hurts.”  I  
rubbed  my  head.  No  sympathy.  “Then  we  stared  at  each  other  and…  Well,  and  then  
he  let  me  go.  “    
It  sounded  so  lame  suddenly.  The  younger  cop  was  still  smiling  as  if  he  
wanted  to  kiss  me,  too.  The  older  cop  asked  me  to  describe  the  man;  he  was  black,  
about  my  height,  40  or  45,  hopped  up  on  drugs,  wearing  blue  jeans  and  a  green  
army  jacket.    
“Well,  we’re  never  going  to  find  him,”  he  said,  snapping  shut  his  notebook.  He  
told  me  I  could  fill  out  a  report,  but  there  was  no  point.    
I  wanted  to  say  to  them  what  if  he’s  lingering,  watching  us.  And  then  I  
realized  that  was  nonsense.  The  whole  story,  the  whole  thing  had  vanished  into  air.  
Into  thin  air  as  Shakespeare  says  of  a  play  when  the  action’s  done.  The  menace  had  

Good  Neighbors    

18  

vanished,  and  without  it  the  story  was  too  thin,  meaningless.  They  had  better  things  
to  do.  
In  that  story  in  the  laundromat,  I  imagine  I  am  much  like  the  other  pedestrian  
struck  and  killed  by  the  car  a  few  days  after  the  boy;  I  could  not  get  anyone  to  care,  
because  after  a  few  minutes  the  horror  had  faded  and  the  essential  details  weren’t  
enough.  
How  could  I  explain  to  any  officer  that  the  woman  had  meant  to  kill  me  and  
had  changed  her  mind?  My  husband  didn’t  even  believe  me,  although  he  clucked  
over  my  wounded  ankle  like  a  mother  hen.  He  insisted  on  taking  me  to  the  
emergency  room  for  stitches  when  we  couldn’t  staunch  the  blood,  and  I  couldn’t  
quite  remember  the  last  time  I’d  had  a  tetanus  shot.    
Later  it  healed,  and  we  moved  soon  after  to  a  new  neighborhood.    
I  didn’t  go  back  for  the  dish.  For  all  I  know,  it’s  still  there,  atop  a  bucket  in  
that  little  dooryard  kept  up  in  its  state  of  total,  artistic  decrepitude  like  some  
memorial  to  the  days  of  Brooklyn  neighbors.    
  
  
  


