Samantha closed her eyes and willed herself not see anything, not even the back of her
eyelids, not the veins in her eyes floating in woozy patterns across her vision, most of all not the
imprint of that woman’s silhouette branded onto her retina, the woman in her husband’s phone.
She didn’t know who the woman was, nor could she see her face. The pictures did not reveal her
naked flesh, but instead they were snapshots of strangely unerotic female body parts— an elbow,
an extended wrist revealing a winding snake tattoo and the woman’s profile, her face hidden in
shadow, the sunlight falling on only her ear, which was punctured with studs and had a strand of
shimmering blonde hair tucked behind it.
They were just images, electromagnetic waves of different frequencies reflecting off the
surface of the phone and plummeting into her eyes. They didn’t have to mean anything.
Samantha tried not to think of how by the second her neurons were spinning bits of information
together, bundling them and presenting them to her consciousness. Kyle’s work meetings that
always ran late. His insistence that she never answer his phone because it could be an important
international client. His empty gaze when she undressed before him at night.
Samantha felt her throat constricting, and she grabbed for her inhaler. Her husband
remained fast asleep in bed next to her.
Just seconds ago, she had been calmly drifting on a raft that was her bed, floating down a
river, undisturbed. This was the vision she conjured for herself to help her fall asleep. After
hours of staring at screens and charts and other people’s bulging eyes, she had to turn to an
imaginary refuge for peace. Her husband, who never had trouble sleeping, had conked out on the
bed, phone in hand. It had begun to buzz. Samantha had only wanted to silence it. And now this.
She thought about waking him up, about making him listen while she accused him, about
making him look her in the eye as he admitted what he had done. Eyes, she thought. There were
no pictures of the woman’s eyes.
“Your eyes are so remarkable,” he had told her, on their very first date, back at her old
apartment in Berkeley where optometry textbooks and notecards were piled high on every flat
surface. They were sitting on her polka-dot couch, their knees touching. He had plucked her
thick glasses from her face and gingerly placed them on top of one of the books.
“There, now I can see them better.”
Samantha could feel the blood burning her plump cheeks red. She had been this close to
patients before, but never had she experienced anyone’s eyes boring into her face with such
intensity. His eyes were pleasant too, chocolate-brown. Warm and steady. They didn’t wander.
Now, ten years later, Samantha lay frozen under the icy sheets of their shared bed. It was
dark out, but the glow of LEDs radiating from various electronics plugged in around the room
illuminated their dresser covered with frames of their photogenic family. To outsiders, how
perfect they must look, Samantha thought. How many times had she gazed at her husband and
her daughter at dinner and thought of just that, how perfect the three of them were, what a
shining example of the American dream: she, with her own optometry practice where her
patients walked out able to see the world a little more clearly, her husband, with his important
Vice President position at a multinational corporation that handled exports from ports
worldwide, her eight-year-old daughter, Lily, who had inherited her mother’s golden locks and
her father’s handsome nose, who was excelling at third-grade math and scoring goals for her
soccer team. On some level, she knew she was a living cliché, but she hadn’t cared. Because life
was going so much better than she have ever dared to hope.
She stifled a sob, her fingers bunching into fists, she wanted to smash them all, all the
photographs, and use the glass to make her husband bleed.
She loved Kyle because he was ordinary. Because he left the toilet seat up sometimes and
he played catch with their daughter on their front lawn and complained about his daily commute.
She loved him because he liked vegging in front of the TV late at night but also because his trips
around the world for business had left no mark on him. No, they had not distinguished him at all
from any other man you would meet on the street. He was who he was, and he wasn’t going to
absorb some other local culture or change his dress or behavior. He never tried to blend in.
But this discovery inverted all of what she had thought about him, flipped like a
reflection in a concave mirror, when you step back and suddenly see that your whole vision has
turned upside-down. Who was he, really? This quiet man she thought she knew and loved?
And what about this woman without a face? Where had he met her? Why her? Was it
because she had everything that Samantha was missing? Her mind drew inferences, connected
the dots. Did she have dyed hair? Did she listen to punk rock? Did she flood him with passion in
a way Samantha could not, Samantha, the woman whose flaws he must have seen as his eyes had
passed over her body so many times. Samantha had seen his, the beer gut that expanded a little
more each year, like the slow widening of a tree trunk, the cruel jokes about dumb blondes with
sneaked guilty glances at Samantha and his own daughter, how he cheered while watching
violent wrestling matches and reveled in the gore of horror flicks, but she had not said a word.
Because she had never wanted to risk losing what they had built together.
The face of someone from her past emerged unbidden into her mind’s eye. A woman
with pouty lips and a snarl. Stay away from my father, she had said. Now she would be cackling,
Samantha thought. What goes around comes around.

3

See No Evil
Samantha got up and slipped out of the bedroom. Her hands guided her through the hall.
She had Lasik eye surgery three years prior, but she still had to squint to see anything but
bulbous shapes in the darkness. Her nightgown brushed the hardwood floor, and she felt her toes
pressing into it. She wished they would go on pressing until she melted and became a part of the
ground.
She stopped in front of her office, flicked on a lamp, and sank down into a stiff desk
chair. She pushed up her laptop screen and without knowing exactly what she was planning to
do, she types in his name.
Not her husband, but the one who came before him. The one the entire world recognizes.
News articles pop up with his face, his eyes, hidden beneath sunglasses. Not to prevent the sun’s
glare from reaching him, but to prevent the world from being blinded by his unseeing gaze.
Bruno Kaczynski. World-renowned composer. Blind since his childhood in an orphanage
in Poland. Samantha could scroll through his biography on Wikipedia, but she knew his life story
by heart. Discovered drumming on leftover tin cans to create music, he was adopted by a kind
benefactor, a trustee of the San Francisco Symphony, who brought him back to the U.S. where
he began his musical education.
Samantha met him while she was interning at a hospital in Berkeley during optometry
school. She was working as an assistant for one of the resident ophthalmologists. It was mostly
filing paperwork, but once in a while Dr. Carter let her sit in on an eye exam or even an eye
surgery.
That day, he told her to help the patient into the exam room.

4

See No Evil
“Sara,” he said, motioning for her to listen. He often called her by the wrong first name.
“I want you to sit in on this one. The patient, he’s a regular of mine. He has a rare case of
childhood blindness. The kind we don’t usually see in the U.S., lucky for us.”
“Why is he coming to see you if he’s blind?”
“We still have to check the overall health of his eyes, make sure there’s nothing out of the
ordinary. Plus, we’ve been discussing possible surgery options with him that might be able to
cure his blindness. He hasn’t come around to them just yet.”
When she turned the corner to go out to the waiting room, Samantha wasn’t sure what
she was expecting to see. Perhaps an old man, frail and hunched over a cane. To her surprise,
when she called out his name, a sturdy, fit middle-aged man with a full head of sandy blonde
hair, a jutting nose, and sharp cheekbones stood to greet her. He held out his walking stick like it
was a conductor’s rod, tapping it lightly on the floor in front of him with a distinct grace. His
head stayed upright, held high, as if he always kept his gaze on the heavens.
He found his way over to Samantha in slow, steady steps.
“Hello, Mr. Kuh-zin-ski,” she said. “Did I say it right?” She was shorter than him by a
whole head. He found her shoulder and then slid his hand down her arm and grasped it firmly.
“Perfectly, my dear,” he said.
“This way, please.”
She sat in the corner of the exam room. Dr. Carter dimmed the lights and the blind man
reclined back in the chair as if was second nature.
“I’m just going to take a look at your eye, Mr. Kaczynski, so please open it wide,” Dr.
Carter said. He had an apparatus of magnifying lenses between him and Kaczynski. “Sara, come
take a look at this please.”

5

See No Evil
She had looked at eyes before in this unglamorous setting, and she knew already that this
was what she loved to do, reading other people’s retinas for the hints of what had passed before
their eyes, what had fallen through their gaze. The nerves at the back of the retina trigger the
process of perception, perhaps even memory, so perhaps it wasn’t so far-fetched to imagine
finding a soul there in the depths of the eyes.
This was the first time she had gazed into the eyes of someone who couldn’t gaze back.
Dr. Carter put drops of fluid in Kaczynski’s eyes to make his pupils dilate. Then he
rushed out of the room, late for another appointment.
“I’ll be back in five,” he said. “Then we’ll take the pictures of your retina, and maybe talk
about the retinal implants that I mentioned to you last time.”
Kaczynski chuckled a deep, throaty laugh.
“You will never convince me, Doctor Carter,” he said. “My broken eyes are what make
my ears so sharply tuned.”
Samantha remained in the room, sure that both the doctor and patient had forgotten her.
“You are still here, Sara, no?”
“Um, yes, I am, Mr. Kaczynski.”
“No need to call me sir. Bruno is fine. Come here.”
He took one of her hands, and felt it.
“You are young, Sara, are you not?”
“My name is Samantha, actually,” she squeaked, taken aback by his nimble fingers,
which traveled over the back of her hand and up her arm, sending pinpricks of lightning
underneath her skin where they touched.

6

See No Evil
“Sa-man-tha” he enunciated, his voice twirling her name into a low melody. “Samantha,
tell me, do you sing?”
She shook her head. A second later, she realized her mistake.
“No,” she said. “I don’t.”
“It is a shame, you have a very beautiful voice.”
“I don’t really know anything about music,” she admitted. “I just know about eyes and
anatomy and that sort of thing.”
“Well Eye Girl,” he said, “When you look at my eyes, what do you see?”
She stared at his pupils which had expanded into tiny black holes, swallowing her into
them.
“An eye that doesn’t work, but is otherwise healthy.”
He squeezed her hand.
“How do you know that they don’t work? Just because they don’t do what other eyes do,
does that mean they cannot see?”
“What do you see?” she whispered.
He smiled. She noted the stubble on his sharp chin. Who shaved his face?
“To know that, my dear Samantha, you must come to one of my concerts. Promise me,
you will.”
She nodded, and though the words did not slip from her lips, she knew he felt the motion
pass through her entire body and release into the arm of his that held her.
Later on, that night, when she was filing paperwork in the office on their shiny, brand
new office computer, a Windows 98, that was connected to the World Wide Web, she took the
liberty of searching for his name online. She shuffled papers while she waited for a response to

7

See No Evil
return. The page loaded. There he was, composer and conductor at the San Francisco Symphony.
She pulled up a list of his upcoming performances and jotted them down on a sticky note.
Then she snuck a peek at his file, overriding the confidentiality warnings that popped up
when she tried to open it.
Fifty-five years old, older than she expected for his physical state. She was twenty-two.
Her eyes glanced down the rest of his file. Next to marital status, was the letter M.
She closed the window, shame creeping up her thighs like a slimy, wet snake. She threw
away the post-it-note, and feeling dirty, washed her hands.
The next few days she avoided the temptation of the computer, stationing herself at the
desk to help patients as they checked in.
Dr. Carter motioned for her to stop what she was doing one morning.
“Can you call Mr. Kaczynski?” he asked. “His retinal scans are in. Everything looks as
well as can be expected. Tell him he doesn’t have to come in again until his next check-up in a
year from now— that is, unless he changes his mind about the surgery.”
He handed her a folder with the scans. She shoved them in their file in a drawer without
peeking at them and tapped her colleague, the part-time secretary soccer-mom, Anita, on the
shoulder.
“Can you make a quick phone call for me? I’m really behind on all this other work I have
to do.”
She wrote down Bruno’s phone number on a sticky note and handed it to Anita.
“No problem, Sam,” Anita answered, taking the note.
And that was that, or so she thought.

8

See No Evil
Later, that afternoon she was studying an optometry textbook in the office. It was a slow
day. There were no patients in the waiting room. Anita had left to go pick up her kids.
She felt her fingers roaming towards the desk drawer, and flipping through the folders.
She pulled out the scans and spread them before her. If anyone asked, she was using them as a
visual aid to help her study.
There was his retina, red like the nucleus of a sunset bursting outwards. And the veins.
She could find whole constellations in these veins, secret messages carved into his eye, of lovers
lost and longing.
She noticed Anita had left the post-it note with Kaczynski’s number on the top of the
scheduling book. Underneath his name and number was written “Still To Do.”
Samantha picked up the phone and dialed.

She never thought she would be on the other side of the mirror, sneaking glimpses of her
husband’s hidden trysts like Bruno’s wife must have done with her. Now she understood the dull
ache of betrayal, the sensation of something rotting in your own bed. Samantha knew she had not
been Bruno’s first mistress, although she liked to hope she had been his last. Even if Bruno had
been able to see, he wouldn’t have left any pictures lying around for his wife to discover,
Samantha was sure of that. But now Samantha wondered how Mrs. Kaczynski had felt, lying
awake while her husband was out with younger women. She didn’t know much about the
woman, just that she was a singer Bruno had met in his youth, one that had adored him, followed
him around until he had finally agreed to marry her. Or at least that’s how he had told it. What a
fool she had been for believing such a story! A story told to shrink Mrs. Kaczynski down to a

9

See No Evil
speck of dust like one that clings to the lens of your glasses, a smudge that you can wipe away.
What tale did Kyle tell to his mistress about Samantha? How she was a passionless robot, too
focused on her work to attend to the needs of her husband? How she wouldn’t settle for less than
perfection and nagged at him constantly? How she cared more about eyes than about people?

He kept an apartment in Marin just for himself and had his own driver, which he sent to
pick up Samantha every weekend. After they made love, he would take her onto their balcony
overlooking the bay. He never asked her what she saw. Perhaps an earlier lover had already
described the view to him. Instead, he would teach her how to listen. For the seagulls, the fog
horn, the lapping waves. He told her there was a symphony playing right before their eyes. But
she could not hear it, not matter how hard she tried. Even if she closed her eyes she could not
prevent the bursts of color on her eyelids from overtaking her other senses.
Bruno didn’t seem to mind that his lover never was able to learn his lesson. He needed to
keep on teaching her, training her to sharpen her ears. She knew that if she had understood him
perfectly and his music then he would have no interest in her. That was just the way he was.
She didn’t like his music. She had sat through his first concert, her mind dizzy from the
sounds which refused to soothe her or harmonize into a triumphant melody that she could follow.
But it wasn’t bad. It was beautiful in an eerie, startling way. That was the only time she attended
one of his performances, however. From then on, the only melodies he shared with her were
Italian serenades that he had learned in his youth from his singing master. He chanted them on
his knees, while she watched on his bed, her lips curled into a half-smile.
He liked to listen to her undress and then seize her all at once.
She felt a thrill when she looked into his eyes and knew he couldn’t stare back.

10

See No Evil

When she was at school, sometimes her life felt like it wasn’t real. She pored over
optometry textbooks, watched bad animations of nerve cells wriggling, squinted into
microscopes until her eyes felt like they had withered up into raisins. It was only when she was
on her way to see him that she felt drops well up into her tear ducts, only then did she look
beyond what was more than ten feet in front of her face and not find it blurry and out of focus.
She remembered how one day she had been complaining to him about her aching eyes.
They were sitting on his balcony, and a salty wind was blowing in across the bay, making her
eyes well up with tears.
“I don’t know how long I can keep this up,” she admitted to him. “The long hours, the
studying. I feel like my eyes are going to fall out.”
He turned towards her and grasped her face in his fingers. Then she saw his unseeing
eyes, and she remembered.
“I’m sorry,” she said, “I shouldn’t be complaining.”
“Don’t apologize, my love,” he said to her. His voice was a near-whisper, but it carried
like a song across a concert hall. “You must not abuse your poor eyes any longer.”
His fingers brushed against her eyelids and softly they shut.
“Listen, my dear, smell, touch.” He kissed her on the lips. “Taste.”
I hear a plane passing by, she thought, trying to play along. And some birds I don’t
recognize. I smell his cologne and the sea air. I feel the roughness of his hands... It was no use,
her eyes still throbbed.
“What do you see, truly, Bruno?” she asked. “Is it just black? Or is it something more?”

11

See No Evil
He did not answer. Then sighing he dropped his palms from her cheeks.
“It always comes back to my eyes with you, doesn’t it?” he said and turned away from
her, folding his arms. He couldn’t close his ears, but she knew he was tuning her out, going
somewhere deeper where only music existed.

It was on one of her school days that his daughter found her. She was at her research lab,
checking test tubes and marking off measurements on a clipboard when her P.I. called her over.
“Samantha, there is someone to see you.”
She knew it was Bruno’s daughter as soon as she saw the woman’s frown, which
resembled Bruno’s own frown when he was frustrated with his work. On those days, Samantha
would pull out the flashcards she had brought with her and study as he boxed an invisible enemy
in his garage, sending a cascade of sounds from the crashing instruments that he threw around
like props.
The woman was a few years older than Samantha. She glared at her father’s lover
through her round glasses while she clutched her purse to her bosom. She wore a drab, faded
dress and pumps.
Samantha shed her lab coat and walked with the woman outside.
“Stay away from my father,” the woman barked at her. “I know what kind of woman you
are.”
Samantha didn’t say a word.

12

See No Evil
“My mother won’t speak up for herself, so I must speak for her. I don’t know what you
want— money, fame, whatever it is, I don’t care. You are never to see my father again. If you
do, we can make life very difficult for you.
“You want to be an optometrist? Cure blindness? Well my mother and I are very wellconnected. We’re part of more organizations for the blind and visual-impaired than you will ever
encounter in your measly career. So if you want to have a future...”
Samantha thought of Bruno’s eyes and of the prints of his retina, which she had secretly
made copies of and brought home. She thought of never being able to touch him or listen to his
accented words. In that moment, she let her brain weigh the two and let the heavier one fall out
of her mouth.
“Say goodbye to him for me,” she said. Then she walked back inside and donned her lab
coat.
She had never told her husband about Bruno, lest he become too jealous. Even when she
and Kyle were first dating, she had sensed that the affair was something in her life that no one
else could touch, that must be kept pristine and fresh in the memory of her eyes, her ears, her
lips.
“Mommy, why are you up?” Lily said. She peered into Samantha’s office. She was
holding a stuffed dog in her hand, the one that she and Kyle had bought her when she was just an
infant. Its floppy ears were almost falling off and its fur was dirty, but Lily clutched it tight under
her arm all the same.
“I was— I was,” she stuttered, momentarily caught off guard.
“The better question is what are you doing up, Lily? Go back to sleep,” Samantha told
her and she quickly closed her search window. She scooped up her daughter, a feat which was

13

See No Evil
becoming harder each year as her little girl grew strong and tall. Lily giggled. Samantha took her
back into her room, and placed her back in bed, tucking her in and placing her menagerie of
stuffed animals around her.
“Now sleep, Lily,” she ordered. “You’re in your cocoon and you can’t come out until the
sun comes up. Or else you’ll never grow into a butterfly.”
“Okaaaaaaaaay,” Lily said, trying to pout but failing. “Goodnight Mommy.”
Samantha watched as her daughter snuggled against her dog and her bears, her cats, and
her rabbits. She waited until her daughter had closed her eyes to softly shut the door.
She paced for a moment in front of her daughter’s bedroom door, running through the
past again, and the present, trying to discern a pattern in the tangle of memories that her neurons
had woven together. How long could she act like she had seen nothing? How long would it take
for him to realize that she could no longer look him in the eye?
She didn’t want to divorce Kyle. She couldn’t do that to Lily, who loved her Mommy and
Daddy together. But she wouldn’t live a lie either, keeping up appearances. Maybe if they could
talk about it together, with a therapist to referee, they could work something out. He didn’t even
have to love her anymore, she decided. She had eyes to see at her work, and a daughter to watch
over. She didn’t need his warmth, his laughter, not if he was sharing it with another woman, she
thought defiantly, balling up her hands into fists.
“You cannot look at the sun without blinding yourself,” Bruno’s voice floated into her
ear, a memory of another day long past. “You can only close your eyes and let it redden your
vision, and let its warmth embrace you like a lover. You cannot look at the sun, but it can touch
you, Samantha. Isn’t that strange?”

14

See No Evil
She took a deep breath. She knew what she needed to do. She would not yell and scream
at Kyle and tear their already fragile marriage to pieces. Instead she would crawl into bed next to
him, and wrap her arms around him, close her eyes and whisper to him.
“I love you,” she would say. She hoped it would be enough.
And in the dark she would feel his arms slip around her back and she would imagine they
were Bruno’s. Constellations would burst under her eyelids and she would finally know what
Bruno had seen all along.

15


