The last time I played she was dead within three short hours. Little did I know that that would be
the last time music, or any signs of life for that matter, would pulse through this room. Buried
deep in my knowing, I was aware that it was coming, but I never imagined it would happen on that
day. That was a good day. A freaking good day. Her eyes were bright and happy, and her energy
was up, rousing me to play those stupid little ditties. Like the Candy Man for god’s sake. It was
a freaking good day.
I hate this room, all sunlit and warm with its afternoon rays bathing these neutral walls. There’s
nothing neutral about this room. It’s a freaking deceptive cold death chamber is what it really is.
More than anything, I hate that goddamn chair over there, the Grim Reaper’s Cadillac that
chauffeured her away from me. So plush, so soft, so mauve, so easy for her to be enveloped in its
overstuffed chenille arms and be carried away. I should take an ax to that soulless piece of shit
deathtrap. Just destroy it. But I can’t. She loved that chair. It was her chair. Besides, it’s holding
traces of her sweet scent: a little almond, a hint of lavender, and the rest, pure her. And it’s holding
tight to a few strands of that pretty golden hair of hers. So, I have no choice but to keep it. Maybe
I could nestle into the indentation of her and it would whisk me away too. That would be better
than sitting on this hard bench trying to will myself to play this piano. Play for no one in this
unaroused space.
I honestly don’t know if I can ever play again. What I really don’t know is if I can ever love again
or if I even want to. Nobody seems to understand that. Bernie keeps telling me that I’ve got to
move on, saying, “find ya another, bro.” Find another, like she was some mutt that I could just go
to the pound and replace. Well, one thing’s for certain and that is that ol’ bro sure as hell doesn’t
know what it means to love. He’s always been about finding another, alright. I mean, geez, the
guy cheats on his wife any chance he gets. And that brain trust Ron tells me that I’m better off
being footloose and fancy-free with nothing and no one to tie me down. This from a guy who
can’t make a commitment to daily personal hygiene. I see now that they’re just a couple of douche
bags, and she always knew that. The exemplary lady that she was, she was always mannered
around them, but she preferred to keep her distance, and did so inconspicuously. She did that just
to please me, I’m sure. But, man, she read them like a book. I could tell from her rigid, guarded
posture that she thought they were assholes.
So many wonderful moments she and I shared with this piano each day. She would settle herself
deeply and comfortably into her chair, while my impassioned fingers would have their way with
these keys; both of us surrendering our beings to the joyful offerings of the ivories. But now look
at these languid hands. They look like shit, as if they’ve been used to work a field or pick cotton
with their shredded cuticles and some unidentifiable nasty crud under the torn nails. Far from
having my hands in the earth in this little apartment. Shit, I haven’t even watered the only two
plants in my care: no maintenance snake plants. Now they’re dead at these hands, as well. Hands
like these don’t deserve the privilege of flowing melodic beauty—or even playing stupid little
ditties.
It doesn’t matter that I don’t play anyway; these keys feel aloof and unfamiliar now. I used to feel
a partnership with this piano, a simpatico, it was a trusted friend; now I feel betrayed by it. It took
my attention away from her while she slipped off. It’s in cahoots with the Reaper. I should take
an ax to it.
I miss you, Annie. I miss looking over at you, savoring your reaction to the tunes du jour. I counted
on your acute ear to let me know when I hit a wrong chord. Oh, it was never with the slightest
criticism or ridicule; merely with an almost imperceptible tilt of your head. I counted on you for
so many things. A measly fourteen years together is unfair. Actually, it’s cruel. Cruel like the
cancer, the Big fucking C. Well, that C isn’t only for cruel. It’s also for catatonic, which I have to
admit is some sweet relief. Crackpot also begins with a c, which is probably what’s behind it all:
a psychopathic, sick mastermind that we call God. Whatever it is can just go fuck itself. Creating
a world where we open ourselves up to love deeply and completely, and then it’s ripped away from
us because time’s up. Who puts a time limit on love? If that’s what this life on earth is all about,
it’s just a sick fucking joke. Here, oh great creator, you depraved degenerate sack of crap, let me
play some eardrum busting, viscera rattling chopsticks for you. Although, that’s far too kind for
you. I wish you eternal screeching of nails on chalkboard. Hmm, this piano needs a tune-up.
I may be losing what’s left of my mind, but I think I feel these keys tingling……or maybe it’s my
fingers? And I can feel you….I think. Maybe I’ve gone nuts. No, I know it’s you, Annie, leaning
your warm body softly against me like you used to. And I swear I just caught a whiff of lavender
and almond in the air. Oh god, maybe I am crazy. Well, okay then, I must say that insanity feels
a whole lot better than agony, so I’ll play something for you like I used to. Don’t worry, sweet
girl, I promise that I won’t start singing. You left the room too many times when I opened my
mouth. How about I play Annie’s Song? Your song. Speaking of, have you met John Denver up
there? Does he like my rendition? I do feel a bit guilty about playing. Mostly, I think I feel guilty
about trying to feel good.
I feel good when I indulge my mind with the image of you settled peacefully in your mauve throne.
I feel good when I recall looking over at you to get my needed fix of unadulterated love that you
beamed from your soft, sage, amber eyes. Those images make my heart and soul feel good. Can
I…...will I…...ever feel good without you in the picture?
Playing music for us always made me feel good. If I’m being honest with myself, playing music
feels good right now. Yeah, even, “the Candy Man can cause he mixes it with love and makes the
world taste good.” I know I have to make amends with this piano. I know you would want that—
and, frankly, I know I really want that too.
I guess it’s about time I take a shower, comb my hair, and put on some clean clothes. And I need
to scrub these fingernails. It’s time.
Annie, you and I both know that you can’t ever, will never, be replaced. As much as I hate to admit
it, that dumbass bro did say something I know to be true. He said that your last dog will help you
find your next one. So, from where you are, girlie, help me at the shelter. Someone’s life needs
to be saved.


