We attacked a babysitter once. It was the long cold part of winter, after the
holidays had passed, and someone had given us Nerf guns for Christmas.
Probably Kimmie, my grandpa’s new blonde wife. I guess because kids are
easier to win over than adults.
The babysitter was the last of a long string of girls with names ending in ‘y,’
girls who talked on the phone with their friends too much and didn’t let us
choose the channel. I don’t remember this one’s face or name, but I
remember her shape. Hourglass.
It started in the basement, when one of us aimed our new toy guns at her. I
think it was Sammy, but it could have been Jake. We’d never been allowed to
have guns before. We didn’t know the rules. Suddenly the girl was under fire,
and screaming stop and scrambling up the stairs to escape.
The chase ended on the plush beige carpet of the piano room, in the shadow
of the baby grand piano no one played, where we pulled the branches off the
artificial Christmas tree a week earlier and put them in a box for storage. We
tackled the girl, and pinned her to the ground.
I kneeled on her wrists. As the oldest, I was an expert at using my body to
hold down someone else’s.
“TICKLE HER!” yelled Sammy, the youngest, who was clamped onto her
kicking legs, getting her at feet.
It’s true what they say about mob mentality. If you can count three kids as a
mob.
The girl’s arms were thick and strong and grabbed at me while I grabbed at
her, but I knew what I was doing. I could feel her frantic laughs, hot little pants
of breath expelled on my neck and my face when I leaned in to reach for her
armpits.
I think it was Jake who yelled “get her boobies!” But it could’ve been me.
She shrieked as we touched her with wiggling fingers, and her screams
incited us. Her body felt like the bread dough my mom made and sometimes
let us touch.
We writhed around like that on the carpet until I felt something wet on my arm
and I looked down and saw a sheen of sweat across her face. I froze and
looked out the large bay window that faced the street to check if anyone could
see us. It was snowing outside, big fat flakes clumped together, and dark.
The babysitter took advantage of the moment and squirmed out of our grips,
punting Sammy in the process. She ran out of the room, Sammy at her heels,
and straight into the bathroom. I heard the lock click as Sammy threw his
weight against the wood.
We paced around the bathroom for a while, like hyenas, taking turns pressing
our ears against the door, listening for movement, calling out a lone desultory
taunt.
When it started to sink in, what we’d done, we skulked up the stairs, where we
laid on our bellies and stuck our heads out through the slats of the railing that
overlooked the floor below. We waited. From our spots we heard the
bathroom door unlock and open slowly. Then, a fury of footsteps across the
kitchen. She’d made a mad dash to the laundry room. We held our breaths
and in the quiet we could hear the harsh tones of telephone buttons, slowly
and deliberately pressed, calling the number our parents had left on a post-it
note in the kitchen in case of emergency.
That was how we took the Miller’s title of hardest kids to babysit on the block.
The Millers were glamorous, and had a giant chore chart in their kitchen,
which my mom doubted they really used. Because everyone knew the Miller
kids were bad. They kicked, bit, and pulled down their pants and peed on the
floor when it was bedtime. Once, when their parents were gone, the oldest
threw the youngest down the laundry chute. But they’d never done what we
did.
When our parents got home that night we must have been punished, but I
can’t remember. I stayed up to hear the fight my parents had when we’d been
put to bed. My room shared a wall with theirs and I pressed my ear against it
to hear.
“It’s those damn guns that Kimmie gave the kids,” my mom hissed,
whispering not to wake me.
“What your father sees in her I just can’t say.”
“Don’t try to make this about my dad,” my dad said, his voice mean and slow
and hard. “He didn’t torture that girl. You heard her crying on the phone.”
My dad blamed me. “Val is old enough to know better,” he said. “She’s
practically old enough to babysit the boys herself.”
I felt the heat crawl up my shirt and neck and scalp but didn’t push my
blankets off, just slid deeper underneath them, so that if someone were to
walk into my room the bed would look empty.
In the morning the Nerf guns were gone.
Later that same winter, my mom got a call from Mary Miller, who was out
West, where the Millers went every February to ski. I was an expert at telling
who was on the other end by what my mom was saying, but she was hardly
saying anything, pacing down the hallway that connected all the bedrooms.
“Who is it?” I whispered, finally, and she mouthed to me, Mary Miller, and
shooed me away. I could tell by the way she broke the silence with sharp
gasps that it was something bad.
As the oldest child and only girl I always heard the neighborhood news first.
When my mom got off the phone, I’d say, “So, what’s the scoop?” and she
would tell me. I wasn’t sure if the privilege would extend to this phone call,
but I waited to find out, digging my toes into the carpet and watching from my
bedroom doorway, arms crossed, one hip against the doorframe.
My mom paced up and down the hall again, then into Sammy’s bedroom,
across the hall from mine. She kept gasping, and bringing her hand to her
mouth like Mary was right there with her. “Oh, Mary,” she said, again and
again. My eyelids were heavy. It was bedtime.
When my mom finally hung up I didn’t even have to ask. She said, her voice
far away like through a phone, “Doug had an accident. Skiing.”
Doug was the best dad on the block, even though his kids were bad. Last
summer he helped us build the tree house in our backyard, and we played in
the driveway out front he always waved with both hands when he was biking
by in special spandex biking clothes. He wasn’t the kind of guy to get into an
accident. Or maybe, I thought, he was.
I sucked in my breath like my mom had done earlier and brought both hands
up to my mouth.
“Is he okay?” I asked, making my voice small.
“I don’t think they’ll know for sometime. But Mary said when the paramedics
came to rescue him he told them he knew, he knew that he was paralyzed.”
I gnawed gently on my finger and studied her face to see how I should react.

“So awful,” she said, shaking her head and looking away from me.
I thought of the Miller’s house at the top of the hill on our street lined with
custom-built houses that all looked the same. I thought of the Miller’s garage,
which was different than ours, because of its long workbench cluttered with
tools and spare parts. Doug built custom wheelchairs for a living.
“Can he walk?” I asked.
“Not if he is paralyzed,” my mom said.
It was spring before he came home from the hospital in Denver, and in that
time the neighborhood kids and I began a giant banner in our basement,
taping paper together to make a ten-foot sign that read, “Welcome Home
Doug!”. I oversaw the planning in pencil, making sure that everything was
perfect before we traced the words in color, filling in each bubble letter with
ink painstakingly, running several markers dry. We brought the banner to the
airport when Doug came home, and we made it onto Kare11 News, which
featured Doug holding himself up on a walker, his legs stiff like a doll’s,
dragging across the concourse. That was the last time I ever saw him try to
walk.
That’s how the Miller’s got their title back. Mary would leave the kids at home
with Doug and he would call a sitter. It was only a year or two before I started
getting called. Babysitters started young in our neighborhood.
In his new condition, Doug could not control the kids. He chased them in his
wheelchair but when they bit him or each other it was up to me to punish
them. Sometimes, Doug would disappear into the bathroom, which the Millers
had remodeled to accommodate his wheelchair. When he came out he would
say, “I’m so sorry, but I just can’t get my pants today.” I zipped his pants as
quickly as I could, hoping that the kids weren’t watching, his legs dead
beneath my hands, the zipper making a metallic hiss as its teeth were forced
together.
	  


