The last time I spoke to Sweet Loving be the last anybody seed
hide or hair of her ‘round these parts. I goes; “Mama, why don’t I
gots your last name?” I be a rubbing on her shoulders an’
smoothing stray hairs clump together on the back of her neck.
“I done been hung with a bogus identity. My name, Black Heart,
scares off the sisters. Black Loving rolls off a tongue smooth as
sweet cream flowing thru the paddles of a butter churn—it be a
better choice.”
“How many times are we gonna have this here conversation? I told
you not to call me your mama. I done escorted you into this world.
Now, you gots to take your own direction! Lordy, sometimes you
act as messed up as the devil hisself! I got nothing to do with your
name an’ you ain’t got nothin’ to offer them ebony lovelies that
you keeps raging on about. Your daddy, Mr. Boston Heart, done
named you. He come a skulking ‘round after I screamed like hell
to Jesus and dropped your sorry ass, all slipping and a sliding,
‘cross them pearly tiles on the white women’s powder room floor
over to Gramacy’s Department Store. There you be, showing off
for the entire world, a spout of tar sprouting from a field of
women’s cotton foundations and whatnot. Mister Boston picks you
up, he does, swats your behind, looks into your eyes and says;
‘This one’s a Black Heart.’ He never ponied up money enough for
me to carry you and I never signed on to be a fulltime mama. He
up and leaves you with me. That sum-bitch prob’ly fathered twenty
of you all’s half-brothers an’ sisters an’ he ain’t took care of one of
his begettin’s yet.”
Sweet is dabbing a special potion called Jasmine Seduces
Gardenia about her ear lobes. She swears when god-fearing ladies
get themselves a sniff, their faces turns red with the prickly heat
and they be prone to swoon while their men go all moony-eyed an’
can’t keep from thinking wiff their other head.
“Now leaves me be—I gots to be gittin’ to my Billie Holiday and
Old Tomcat Gin. Don’t be sporting your ugly mug round here no
more either. You done scared off the Reverend Pike when he come
a courting. I swear to Christ, you done run off all the eligible
brothers and half the married men in Macomb County. Damn!
Now I’m a needing a shot of something way more potent than
booze, just talking at you wears me down . . . Your sorry ass better
be moved outta here by the time I gits back—you bes’ be striking
out on your own”
Like I says, that be the last anyone inhabiting these parts ever seed
of Sweet Loving. I stay in Mama’s house for a time a wondering
when she be back. Funny thing though, the morning after Mama
didn’t make it home the whole dang floor turn up caked with
swamp muck. I think to myself that a feral sow must be on the
prowl.
Mama’s food run out about the same time Mister Boston Heart
hisself shows up on the front stoop. When I gits ‘round to opening
the door he pushes past.
“Good lordy! What a pigsty. Boy, where’s your mama?”
“Out—she don’t want no truck wiff you, you four flusher.”
He be standing there in patent leather shoes, spats, striped dress
pants, white shirt wiff rolled up sleeves, suspenders, but no coat.
That goddamned hat, folks call it a bowler, perched on his head
hiding the baldness of it all. The ol’ bastard always seems to be
sum kinda short when it come to parading around in full dress.
Mister Boston, he pull out this gold turnip-shape pocket watch and
catches the hour. Someday I aim to have me a timepiece jus’ like
that one. Then, he advances on me like he be a marching on Selma;
jaws a flapping, waving his walking stick like some kind of circus
lion tamer.
“I knowed you wasn’t the second comin’ the first time I cast an
eyeball on you. None of my progeny has passed the test so far. My
seed is more than up to it. I need your mama to bore me another
child. One that be angelic and don’ give me no sass.”
That be the last anyone ‘round these parts ever heard or knowed of
Mister Boston Heart.
Cassie Mae say I can stay wiff her if I take her to the Harvest
Celebration wiff me and I don’t stick that serpent swinging
between my thighs into any of those pretty white girls who always
spy on my comings and goings. Cassie won’t let me stick my big
dick in her, either, but she plays wiff it some. She keeps a tellin’
me if’s I treat her righteous and be understanding of her Mama’s
ways, one day she’ll take me out back of the hen house an’ let me
ride her like thunder rollin’ off the Smokies. For the time bein’ I
don’t mind her a clutching onto me every now and again, but I do
got my own needs begging for daily relief. I moved to the hayloft
in Cassie’s mama’s barn. Her ma be a big woman and always
having a hard time a gitting through doorways and such.
She hain’t been up in the loft for a dozen years—the ladder plumb
won’t support her. For me, a slopping hogs an’ scratching ‘round
the garden wiff a hoe, she leaves food out on the back stoop. I has
to be there when she goes to a ladling it out or Bullet, her leopardlooking cur, will eat my swill along wiff his in one gulp. The first
time I stay out to Cassie’s, her mama reaches through the side vent
in my bib overalls and grabs me ‘round the privates and squeezes
until I done every chicken dance I can think of.
“You ever use this thing on my little girl; I’ll chop it off with the
kindling hatchet.”
“Yes’m.” I screech as she ratchets up the pressure.
“If you be a thinking that you man enough to use your equipment,
bring it up to my bed.”
She give one last twist and then loosened her grip. I hurt so bad I
can’t make water for days. My balls swell up an’ look like two
grapefruits stuffed into too small a sack. I shag my ass down to
Goodfellow, the village healer. He takes me into his back room for
an examination.
“Boy,” he says, “on a scale of one to ten, how bad is your pain?”
“I give it a ten,” I groan.
“Okay, then. Drop your drawers and lay your business on this
bench. Move your hand and close your eyes, it’ll be over before
you know it.” Smack!
He must have hit me wiff the flat side of a spade, ‘cuz it be the
only implement I seed in the room. The fresh burst of pain throws
me to the floor. Goodfellow stands there a smiling down at me and
says; “I bet you don’t feel no pain in your balls at all.” Then he
steps through the doorway an’ leaves me sprawled on his back
room floor writhing around like I be some kind of snake run over
by a steel rimmed wagon wheel . . .. That proved to be the last time
anyone ‘round these parts seed that old prick Goodfellow.
Somehow, I gets myself back up the haymow. When I finally stand
upright long enough to put in a full day of work, I notice a dried-up
batch of swamp muck leading up the ladder right to the hay bales I
laid up on. That goddamn sow must be a tracking me.

The Final Days of Black Heart

4

The last day of the Harvest Celebration is upon us, church bells git
to ringing at midnight—signaling the end of the festivities. Then,
we all show up for Sunday service and those of us who ain’t been
dunked gets taken down to the slough and dragged into Johnson’s
Crick. We gits some words said above our heads then held under
water until the last bubble escapes our lips. The bodies then be
hauled up on bank, face down. Them’s that don’t git up on their
own are said to be hiding a black heart and gets buried in Potter’s
Row just outside the cemetery’s gates. Now, I never let them catch
me up for a dunking ‘cause of fear that I own on account of my
name already being Black Heart. I am willing to keep on a
breathin’, rather than finding out if the devil is holed up in my own
skinny self.
We wuz on our way to Sunday meeting, Cassie an’ me be a
walking behind her Mama on account of her blocking all that wind
and rain pouring down off’n the Smokies. Somebody toll’ me that
the sun ain’t shined in a fortnight, that be the reason that I show up
for the service—I be sick of the wetness an’ the seating here be dry
as the cunt of a barren heifer.
Cassie and her Mama stand dead center in the choir and their
voices soar with angels. They hits them notes that brung sunshine
to a sea of cloudy faces. Why, they both cleared a span that lent
buoyancy to sinking hearts and more important, showed direction
to this here displaced urchin. I ain’t in need of hearing the
preacher’s words threatening hellfire and damnation; a jealous
lover or a runaway team could end my days on this earth at any
moment. I figures that I be confronting the demons of the nether
world soon enough. I just be begging for the fleetest moment of
peace. Please, let me suck the teat of life long enough to grows old,
maybe even allow me time to imparts my wisdom upon the down
trodden. Lord knows; I stumble along the same crooked path.
As we trail in her mama’s wake, Cassie be explaining that this
afternoon she feel like laying out back of the hen house for her go
at thunder rollin’ off the mountain and I finally gets to be the
thunder. But first she says, I gotta go up to her mama’s room and
‘splain to her how it all gonna be, man-like. She says her and her
ma talk it all out last night and the path is clear for me to make my
play. Right about now I starts welling up like some kind of fence
post until the idea of making my way to her mama’s bedroom wilts
me faster than new sprung clover showered in dog piss. I’m a
pondering all this latest information when I believes I catches the
scent of Jasmine and Gardenias which done jerks me around ‘til I
be sporting a corner post made of the stoutest oak.

The Final Days of Black Heart

5

I be having a hard time catching air and truth be told, I be feeling
more than a little faint thinking ‘bout my own mama when all a
sudden a dirge of church deacons gathers me up an’ pitches me
face first into Johnson’s Crick. The world begins filling wiff
darkness. I fight like the dickens but there be too many old men
and they done got the jump on me. I feel the turnip-shaped watch
slide from my pocket but I can’t grab fo’ it being they have my
arms held tight to my sides. I git me a creepy revelation and the
notion strikes me that a slew of missing bodies is turning over in
swamp muck applauding the goings on.
It feels like the whole church crew be sitting on my backside when
all a sudden I about gets turned inside out by the devil struggling to
escape my sorry self. I knows, just knows if’s I open my mouf to
renounce his evilness I be drowned fo’ sure. The blackness grows
and there be no tunnel to crawl through and damn sure, no light to
guide a body at the end of it.

\


