Boris was an odd man. He liked things a certain way, though he tried not to bother
anyone with his tendencies. He didn’t want another incident like the time he’d fixed Mrs.
Deloris’s garden. He did not have six hundred dollars lying around for court fees. But
really… who honestly believed tulips were alright to plant the day before a full moon? It
was asking for awful things to happen to her, and by extension, her neighbors. He may
have pulled them out, but he’d replaced them with lovely, innocent white roses. What
was there to complain about?
Never mind that though. His point was that people believed him odd. He wasn’t
so odd though. Just a little… excessive, maybe a tad bit unconventional. Was that so bad?
No, not at all. He found, in the company of himself, he was quite delightful. No one
appreciated him though. It was rather sad. Rather… lonely.
Sad or not, there were things that needed to be done today. Groceries needed to be
bought. Bills needed to be paid. There was a lovely stew that needed to be prepped for
dinner. Never too early to start prepping for dinner. Mr. Boris nodded to himself as he
adjusted his tie. It would be a good day. A fine day.
The tie was maroon, not red, never red, maroon. The white collar shirt had not a
speck of dirt on it, nor wrinkle. He’d gotten up early, as he did every morning, to iron it.
He had a rather fancy smancy little steamer that did marvelous work. He tied his shoes in
a neat little bow. Then untied them. Tied them again. Untied them. Tied them again.
Seven consecutive times. Seven was swell, it was swanky. There were days, seven of
them in fact (he chuckled to himself), that he mourned the grievous structure design of
this world, coming in eights and threes and, he shuddered, sixes. Sevens made things
easier.
Mr. Boris hands ached this morning, their wrinkled visage upset by the upcoming
storm. He ignored their whims as he pulled his coat on, reached for his maroon scarf, and
steadied his cane. My, my… his hands did have a mind of their own, didn’t they? No
matter. Today they would obey him.
He shimmied his pants up, they had a tendency to wander, he blamed his lack of
appetite as of late. Hobbling down the street he decided to take the bus instead of drive.
Oh, he was an exciting, adventuress old man, that was for certain, always so whimsical
and daring. You just never knew what Boris J. Rollin would do next!
He tapped the tip of his leather boots against the first seven paved squares down
his driveway, making sure his can only touched every other square. At the end of his
homes property he finally looked up. A blistery wind caught his scarf, yanking playfully,
bringing with it the smell of pumpkin spices.
Mrs. Mallory must be preparing for fall festival. I shall sneak by later today for a
bite.
“Good morning Mr. Boris,” a voice called, out of breath.
Peter Williams waved, sweat soaked bangs sticking out at odd angles, feet jogging
in place as the young man pauses to greet him.
“As to you, Amelia ask you to the festival yet?”
Peter smiled ruefully at him. Mr. Boris will never let the young man live down his
gal, spitfire that she was, asking him to Prom. In his day it was disgraceful. Forcing the
woman to ask. Times had changed though. Women demanded the demolishment of
chivalry and male responsibility. It was acceptable behavior now. But that did not stop
him from at least picking fun.
“I asked her,” Peter admonishes the teasing, though theirs a hint of resignation, if
Mr. Boris wasn’t imagining it. “Will we see you there?”
He grins, his false teeth presenting a pearly white display.
“Of course, my boy, of course, someone has to bring a stew that won’t cause the
county to barf through the night.”
“To be fair, Mrs. Grant didn’t know her kid put play dough in the stew,” Peter
huffs, his feet have stopped jogging in place.
“To be fair,” Mr. Boris grinned, “I think the play dough made it taste better.”
Peter shakes his head, a forced chuckle filling the air between them.
“It was good seeing you again,” Peter tells him, waving as he takes off.
“Indeed.”
He makes it to the bus stop without any more encounters. That suits him alright,
he’s a social creature, but the quiet is good too. That was why he never married. When
you are a bachelor you can choose when to be involved with the crowd and when you can
have peace. A man attached to a woman has no choice. There is always noise or there is
always silence and in the end the silence is more deafening than all the years of noise.
A stray cat wanders his path. Its fur ruffles as it pauses in front of him, as if
sensing his being. Big green eyes staring knowingly before it turns it’s back. Tail
twitching.
He hates cats.
Back in his day, before he’d been forced into retirement for someone younger,
whose hands didn’t shake with arthritis and decaying bones, he’d been a veterinarian.
Operated on thousands of animals, even a few bears, being in a small town surrounded by
forest and all. It had been fine. Kept him busy, which was good. Things tended to be
more in control when he was busy. Left less time for him to get adventuress. Mr. Boris
tried leaving the cats to his fellow associates. The black cats in particular, he’d let them
die before he crossed their path. He thought it no coincidence that two days after Dave
operated on one of the devils, a car wreck ended his life. No one listened to him though,
not old Mr. Boris.
The bus pulled up six minutes late. He tried not to allow his face to crease in
anxiety as the doors opened. Greg was a decent fellow. Harried already by the rude
passengers on his route. Still… he gathered his items up slowly. Pretending to struggle
with his cane as he walked up to the bus. He checked the time. Still six minutes late. He
sighed. Paused. Glanced up at Greg who quickly looked away at being caught staring.
Checked his watch again. Seven minutes late. He sighed in relief.
He stepped on the bus, tapping the step seven times, up the next one, seven more
taps. The next, seven taps again. The fourth step, seven more steps, this time when he
looked up, Greg was openly staring. Staring at old odd Mr. Boris.
“Fer the love o’ god Boris!” A voice called from further on the bus. “There’s only
five steps on this here bus, just like last week and the week before that! Get yer fecking
arse up here before I rearrange it!”
His knuckles whitened on his cane. He took a deep breath, taking the last step and
hurriedly tapping it seven more times. Greg gave him a sympathetic glance, but said

4

nothing. Mr. Boris understood. Greg was a shy creature. Mr. Boris was a creature of
habit.
He doesn’t show his bus pass, somewhere between the hundredth time and the
thousandth time, Greg remembers that he does indeed have one, and it’s renewed
automatically each year without his need to do anything. It will probably continue to
renew even after he dies.
He hobbled along the line, spotting the speaker. His hands tightened on the cane
again. His muscles tensed. His features hardened. There was Mr. Bergs. Grey hair
balding above a forehead forming inwards instead outwards with a nose spotted so
heavily with age it was brown rather than the natural pearly white the rest of him
appeared. Round exterior taking up the entirety of his seat. An ass inside and out. Mr.
Bergs state of being was further reaffirmed as Mr. Boris counted out the seats to his usual
spot. The seventh seat. He took a calming breath, glancing over to the second seventh
seat. Directly across from Mr. Berg sat a young woman, legs spread out carelessly as she
leafed through a book, oblivious to the world.
“What’s o’ matter, Boris?” Mr. Bergs questions in near glee. “Can’t find a seat?”
There were, in fact, several seats available. But none of them were sevens. His
heart leaps as he looks around. Greg’s is turned, staring at him, hands on the wheel. The
other patrons mumble to each other. Some of them glare. He breaths in and out. Suddenly
he doesn’t feel quite so adventuress anymore. What a terrible idea. What a terribly,
dreadful idea.
“Can you just sit?” A woman demands, gesturing to the empty chairs. He gives a
sharp nod to acknowledge he hears her, because honestly, he doesn’t think he could

5

speak. He begins to walk to the empty seats, but his body shudders. He can’t do this. He
needs his seat. He turns back.
“Excuse me.”
His voice feels more like a squeak. Everyone is staring at him. He takes a deep
breath. Clears his throat.
“Mr. Boris,” Greg finally calls.
“Yes, yes I understand,” Mr. Boris says, almost to himself, panic rising. He leans
forward, closer to the young woman with her book. “Excuse me,” he says again.
Startled brown eyes blink up at him. Large lips moving out and eyebrows raising
in an expression that clearly reads ‘me?’ She closes her book, looks around as if to see if
she’s at her stop, then back at him. He clears his throat again.
“I know it’s awfully inconvenient for you, but would you mind, too terribly, if I
could have your seat?”
The eyes around him are glaring now. Incredulous. Bewildered. Annoyed. But
this young woman doesn’t bat an eye. She scans the bus, sees the open seats, and in one,
two, three… she’s up and out of the seat, landing without grace into one of the other ones
available, bag flopping without care. She doesn’t say a word, just flips her book back
open.
He’s stunned, but too grateful to interrupt her with a petty ‘thank you’ she clearly
doesn’t care to receive. So he sits and adjusts his cane. The bus starts moving and the
disgruntled, unhappy patrons eventually stop staring. Mr. Bergs huffs unhappily, as if his
day has been ruined, and Mr. Boris feels an inclination towards battery, but stills it. He’d
decided long ago that Mr. Bergs is a cat person.

6

When the bus finally comes to his stop, he is surprised to find he is not the only
one getting off. Habit makes him twitch at this change. No one gets off at his stop. There
was only a rundown café and a gas station long since closed down and reopened as a
liquor shop. But she does.
The young page turning book woman gets up with as much flippancy as she’d sat
down. Short brown hair bouncing as she sweeps off the bus. He hobbles behind. Seven
taps repeated down five steps. By time he steps off, the girl is nowhere in sight. He
guesses she’s going to the same place he is though, seeing as he’s not sure she’s even
twenty-one.
Banshees Café is, thankfully, not a play on words. Despite being in the middle of
nowhere and frequented by more rough looking biker types than he’s strictly comfortable
with, it has the best food he’s ever tasted. And its quieter there than any city café. Seven
days out of the month finds him here, eating breakfast before he finds himself on a late
morning bus into the part of town that doesn’t have a population of twenty. His home,
even further into the countryside, probably only numbers ten or so people in a fifteen
mile radius.
It is a mercy on his gas tank and wallet that the almost desolate town of Graham
has a city not thirty miles away anywhere from 140,000 people to 200,000 people. He
likes the small town. He likes the distance from humanity. The low crime rate. The fact
that every single person is known and talked about. He likes knowing who he is to these
people even if it’s not all that great a reputation. Crazy old, odd Boris.
When the door opens for him, he knows it’s Suzan before he sees her face. He
knows his table is already set. The salt always kept to the left side, the plate placed

7

carefully in the center of the table, and a hot cup of British Breakfast tea still wafting
evaporated water into the air, it’s so hot. In a town like Graham, OCD simply translates
to Old Coot Disorder. And that they’ve had plenty of experience with.
“Pies still cooling from the oven Mr. Boris,” Suzan tells him.
He nods, he has time, plenty of time.
“I’ll still have it first.”
“In ten years you’ll still have it first,” Suzan gripes good naturedly, “I just meant
you’ll have to wait ten minutes.”
“I’ll wait seven,” he tells her.
She rolls her eyes, but he knows that she’ll place a timer on her watch and it will
be out on his table four hundred and twenty seconds from now. He grabs a newspaper
and sits down. Over the brim of the horror and tragedy bundled in black letters and gray
paper, he notes that the young woman had, in fact, come into the café. There’s a laptop
on the counter and for the first time since he got on the bus this morning, the book is
firmly closed. Her fingers flying over the keyboard as if her very life depended on its
strokes.
As a thank you for this morning, he fights his habit. He does not go over to see
what she’s up to, nor does he allow his curiosity to question her. He avoids looking at her
and when the pie arrives he carefully slices it into seven bites. Suzan is right, of course,
it’s too hot and he burns his tongue.
He arrives on his doorstep at 6:45 that night. He places the key in the lock, but
doesn’t turn it. It’s not time yet. Far in the distance, with the last rays of the setting sun,
he can see Mrs. Deloris hacking away at her garden. He hopes she’s not planning to plant

8

more of those god awful tulips. He adjusts his own pots of Wolfsbane along his
windowsill. Now here is a useful plant!
At 7:00 he turns the key and steps into his home. He puts his key on its hook first,
then his coat. Carefully, systematically, he removes his maroon scarf and its matching tie,
before taking off the white collar shirt. He replaces it with a plain black one. He unties
his shoes before tying them again and untying them another six times before discarding
them in the closet.
Traversing the kitchens dimly lit space, he sets about making two cups of tea.
Only two, because it’s two separate sets of seven. He’s made two cups of tea each night,
for the past three nights, and will continue for the next four. Normally he only makes one
cup of tea a day. One set of sevens, but he makes two when he has a guest over for the
week. All of his guests, upon his request, stay seven days. They could not possible stay
one. It’s not logical, you see.
Two lemons are placed in each teacup. He hums a little as he adds the honey.
Drums his fingers merrily along the counter as he reaches for the milk. Just a splash. And
then a dash of his special white powder into the right one. Always the right. Gosh it’s
been such a long time since he’s had a guest. He’s so excited. Not a lot happens when
you are seventy six years old and retired. Especially living in the middle of nowhere.
Its times like these that he’s so thankful he adopted a son who adored rock bands
growing up. The racket he used to make with those damned drums of his. Nearly drove
both him and Deloris to homicide he reckoned. Fifty years of living next door to one
another and it is the one and only thing they’ve come to agree on in all that time. This
thought makes him chuckle. It had been a blessed day when he moved his boys ‘musical

9

expressions’ to the basement. A grand or so to make it sound proof, but worth every
penny. Happy, silent, days wandered restlessly back to his home.
Now he opened the door to the basement and noise of a different sort slammed
into him. He descended, closing the door firmly behind him. He wobbled going down, his
cane only just giving him the ability to travel the narrow staircase safely. He really should
invest in one of those chairs for the elderly. It would ease the ache in his hands and back
in spades. But no matter, he’d been keeping his guest long enough without bothering
them about an old man’s ailments.
Whistling merrily, he set the teacups down onto the table, rearranging them so
they sat perfectly perpendicular to one another. Satisfied he eased himself into his chair
across from his guest.
“It has been far too long Edith,” Mr. Boris starts casually. “When was the last
time we sat down to talk like this? Your last book signing wasn’t it? Marvelous series,
breathtaking.”
Spit hits his cheek.
He touches it. The saliva sticks to his fingers and it’s specked with flecks of
blood. Such a lovely shade of maroon. Edith sits in her chair, short chains bolted to the
floor around her ankles, long chains around her wrists. An electric dog collar sits around
her neck, and burns circle her throat mirroring the collars placement. Her pinky finger
was missing, black string closing the wound up and wrapped carefully, almost lovingly,
in gauze.
“Your absolutely right, my dear, talk is cheap.”

10

Mr. Boris stands unsteadily. Edith flinches, lips pressed tight together. There’s
regret there. In the tenseness of her shoulder’s. In the avoidance of eye contact. In the
way she brings her legs together and huddles in on herself. He eases his wrinkled hands
onto her shoulder, gently messaging it.
“It’s alright dear, no need to be so tense.”
A strangled sob escapes Edith.
“Shhhh, it’s alright. We’re going to have a lovely time. I’m going to fix you up.”
Oh, this was his favorite part.
He unscrewed the top of his cane, its hallowed out center glittering with the silver
of brand new tools. He let them slide out onto the table. Each of the four instruments
tapped against the wood seven times. Each resounding thwack broadening his smile and
weakening Edith’s visage.
Thwack.
The scalpel.
Thwack.
The shears.
Thwack.
The forcep.
Thwack.
And his favorite.
The neurosurgical scissors.
But those come later.

11

Edith bodily flinched. Sobs wracking her frame as she shook her head back and
forth, screaming and tugging at her restraints. Poor dear. Her throat was so raw from last
night that only a rasping whine escaped now. Well, it was her own fault. It was her
second day here and she knew she was allowed to drink the tea if she wanted. The honey
was supposed to help with sore throats.
“Now Edith, we can have a calm talk if you’ll just calm down. The tea is
absolutely refreshing.”
To prove his point he lifts his own cup, sipping at the hot liquid and letting it slide
down his throat. Why do all his guests think he’s poisoned the tea? Really, it makes no
sense. He’s a good person. He wouldn’t just out right murder someone without fixing
them first.
Edith thrashed, glaring at him, tears streaking down her face as she rasps out an
attempt at a scream. She kicks the table, her teacup rattling before tipping, hot liquid
splashing tea droplets everywhere. Including on her clothes. It doesn’t fall over though.
The teacup remains full. As always.
“You’re making a mess,” he scolds.
And she’d wasted his gracious offering of pain killers in her drink. Such a pity.
He didn’t want this to hurt them. Honestly. They just would not cooperate.
His hands put his teacup down on the tabletop. They reached for the scalpel,
fingers caressing its edge, a bead of blood sliding down its length. Oh dear, they really
did have a mind of their own. Hadn’t he just been lecturing Edith about being patient and
pausing to smell the roses?

12

He forced them to obey him. To put the scalpel down. Now he and Edith would
have a lovely talk and no one, not even his hands, would stop him. He was a little bit odd,
a tiny bit unconventional, but he wasn’t bad, just adventuress. This would be her choice,
not his. He was a good person. Really.
“Edith,” he says.
Be gentle.
“Dear, there are nineteen appendixes on your body. Nine on your hands and ten
on your feet. They’re wrong, don’t you see?”
He holds up his hands to demonstrate. Disgusted by the digits, by how wrong they
are, but he long ago decided he would need to suffer it, in order to be able to help other
people. That’s all he ever wanted was to help. Edith’s lips trembled. Her head lolling
back and forth, the shadows of her resounding ‘no, no, no’ of yesterday. Her breathing
finally evening out.
Be Kind.
“Now, I know it hurts, but everything is going to be okay. I’m a veterinarian, I
know what I’m doing.”
He takes one of her hands in his, but she snatches it away, jerks against the
chains, the red, angry rash along both wrists and ankles glistening with blood now.
“This is your choice, Edith. I want you to pick which appendix you’re going to
lose.”
“Fuck you, fuck you, fuck you, fuck you!”
He pulls out the remote for the collar.
But be strict.

13

He presses the button seven times.

14


