Superman stood in the plaza outside the theater wiping the sweat from his forehead with a
cowboy-style handkerchief. A Chinese woman with her daughter passed by. He nodded
heroically. The older woman clutched her daughter tighter and sped her brisk steps. He tucked
the kerchief into the folds of his spandex shirt, where it ruffled and bumped around his waistline.
He propped his fisted hands on his hips and puffed his chest as he inhaled. The young girl smiled
back and gave a little wave.
A tap on his shoulder turned him to face a blonde wearing a straight-brimmed Dodgers
hat, a ponytail pouring out the back and a smear of sunscreen below her right ear. She held up
her camera. “Can I get a picture with you?” she asked.
“Most certainly,” Superman said. He fanned out his fingers, displaying a small roll of
cash thumbed into his palm. “We work on tips if that’s all right.” Like a magician, he cupped his
hands and the money vanished.
“Oh, yeah... sure,” the blonde said. She handed the camera to her friend, a chubby woman
whose rotund midriff hung her t-shirt like a tablecloth over a table. She had cut the crew neck
collar into a V and Superman could see her slumping cleavage. She giggled as she took the
camera and snapped the shot.
“Thank you so much,” the blonde said. Superman smiled and told her it was his pleasure.
The blonde walked away without giving a tip and Superman sighed and dropped his shoulders
for a moment, remembered his role and stood heroically once again.
Three more women all asked the same favor, and to each he flashed his cash roll. From
one he earned a dollar, the husband pulling the money from his wallet as the wife reviewed the
digital photo on her camera. She took the dollar from her husband and handed it the extra foot to
Superman. He thanked them and they thanked him and Superman added the bill to his roll.
Batman approached him as a customer departed. “Want to grab some lunch, Dale?” He
pulled back a rubbery leather sleeve and looked at his watch. “Slow morning. Might as well grab
something now before the afternoon crowd comes.”
As they left the plaza in front of the theater, Batman opened a yellow plastic box on his
utility belt and withdrew a pack of cigarettes. From another box, he brought out a black lighter
stamped with his yellow insignia. “You shouldn’t smoke, Carl,” Superman said.
“Oh, don’t give me that healthy lungs shit. My wife gives it to me all the time.”
“I don’t mean it like that. I mean it’s not in character. You’re not Batman when you
smoke because Batman doesn’t smoke. You’re Carl when you smoke.”
“Well, fuck it I’m on break.”
“There really is no break when you’re wearing the costume.”
Batman looked at Superman, pausing the cigarette halfway to his mouth, lighter ready to
burn. But Superman could not discern an expression underneath the mask and make-up. He
remained silent and Batman lit up as they walked. Batman stomped the cigarette butt outside the
fast food restaurant. They both ordered hamburgers.
As Superman took the last bite of his sandwich, an elderly man approached the table.
“May I?” he asked, holding up a camera and pointing to it.
“Certainly,” Superman said. He stood up and leaned down to put his arm around the man.
Batman put a second elbow on the table and stuffed a French fry in his mouth and watched the
old man hand the camera to his wife. She counted to three aloud and there was a pause while an
orange light blinked. Then a white flash. Superman and the elderly man thanked each other again
and the couple left and Superman resumed his seat.
“You should have charged them,” Batman said as he stuck a ketchup-soaked fry into his
mouth. “You can’t be a sucker like that.”
“Mr. Incredible got arrested for soliciting last week.”
“’cause he’s a fucking retard and did it to a cop.”
“It was an undercover cop. It could have been anyone and it could happen to us.”
“He was inside the sidewalk line. He was on private property and he knew it. I still say,”
Batman chomped his food, “that he’s a fucking retard. There’s a fucking groove in the sidewalk.
You can see it. Anyone can see it. How did he miss it? He went right past it and solicited to a
cop.” Batman nodded to the recently photographed couple. “You think that old man was a cop
with his wife?” He pointed to Superman’s fries spread out on the wrapper. “You gonna eat the
burnt crispy ones?”
“No.”
Batman snatched a few blackened bits of potato. He dipped them in ketchup, soaking his
finger tips and tilted his head back to drop them in his mouth. He licked his fingers. “You know,
we should go on strike.”
“Strike? As in we stop working?”
“Is there another kind? Yeah. We should strike.”
“If I stop working, I stop getting paid. Besides, it’s not that bad.”
“Not that bad? We get paid, what, a couple of bucks an hour? For the services we provide
for these people, we’re underpaid and not appreciated and they need to know it.”
“If I stop, some other Superman – or a Batman for that matter – might come along.”
“See, that’s bull. You look like the real Superman. Christopher Reeves and shit. And I do
a pretty good Batman. Lots of people tell me I look like Keaton. We got what they want. It’s not
just any guy can dress up in some tights and be us. Look at me,” he stood up, held out his arms
and rotated slowly. “Know how much this suit cost me altogether? About three grand. Yeah,
that’s right. Three grand for this suit. But it looks fucking incredible, right? So no guy is going to
come drop that much money if I’m gone for a couple of days. And look at you,” Batman sat back
down, picking at the last of Superman’s fries, “you telling me some other punk is gonna take
your spot if you’re gone for a few days? No, man. No.” He dropped the fries in his mouth and
leaned forward and hammered his index finger on the table. “We got to strike.”
“People strike because they have demands.”
“We’ll demand that people pay us. How many times you get stiffed today?”
“About ten or so.”
“And how much you get tipped?”
Superman reached into his spandex and withdrew his roll. He counted. “About twentyfive.”
“So that’s like...” Batman’s eyes rolled up while he calculated, “a twenty-percent increase
in your salary.”
“It’s illegal to solicit services for money. We’d be like the prostitutes off S— Boulevard,
just without sex.”
“I’m not saying we change the law or break the law. I’m just saying we need to make
people aware there’s an etiquette. That’s all. We bring tourists to this town. Time we were
compensated for it.”
“Well, you figure it out,” Superman stood up, and crushed his wrapper in his hands, “and
let me know how it would work and I’ll consider it.” He picked up his cup, sucking the gurgling
last sips from his drink. “But for now, the eleven o’clock show lets out in a few minutes and I
don’t want to miss the crowd.” Batman left his tray on the table and followed Superman out.
The theater, like all the actors it housed on rolled film, looked bigger on the silver screen than in
real life. Images of its historic front came rife with nighttime spotlights illuminating red carpets
and well-dressed fans waiting for their celebrities to stroll through and sign autographs and pose
for pictures. In the summer daylight and without the carpeting, its shabby red front stood out
against the adjacent rows of nondescript second-hand stores and convenient grocers. The sun
turned the pavement into a hotplate and tourists skittered and swarmed like disoriented bees. The
passing tourists churned through; thousands of solids moving together like a fluid. In the midst of
the throng stood the superheroes. Superman and Batman with Wonder Woman and Spiderman
and others not so iconic. In the morning a few cartoons, Goofy or Buzz Lightyear. But a short
time under the mask in the city’s heat usually sent those men home dehydrated.
The heat did not slow the tourists nor Superman’s smile nor Batman’s discontent. Before
the crowds gathered, the men meandered in the plaza in front of the theater, walking as with a
purpose, then abruptly turning and looping back the way they had come. They would pose with a
tourist, saying “We work on tips” and posing again and repeating “We work on tips” and holding
out their rolls of low-denomination bills. The tourists marched through like lost lemmings and
Superman always tried to create a small line of customers. Lines set precedent. When new
tourists entered the plaza, they saw the attraction – not the tall blue suit and red cape, but the line
that curved around him. When the man ahead tipped, the man behind did likewise, thinking

5

Cervelloni
payment is protocol. But if the tipping stopped, it took an overt cash exchange to restart the
crowd.
While Superman smiled into each camera and thanked and smiled and thanked again, he
kept the line at the forefront of his mind. It was a delicate balance. Too long a line discouraged
those waiting at its end. He kept a long line short – dismissing people faster, cutting handshakes
shorter and addressing the next-ups sooner. He kept short lines long – agreeing to a second
picture or asking people where they were from. On good days, Superman took home two
hundred dollars. On regular days, he made much less.
“Stupid fuckers,” Batman said. He had removed his mask as he left the plaza with
Superman. “I swear they don’t get that this is a job.”
“How much?”
“Seventy-five bucks. All day for a shitty-ass seventy-five bucks.”
“There’s that premiere here this Friday,” Superman said. “You going to that?”
“No.” Batman said. He lit a cigarette. “It’s too crowded and no one even cares that you’re
there. I went to one awhile back and not a single person asked for a photo. A completely
worthless Friday. They’re all morons.”
“I’m not going for work. I want to collect more autographs. I have seventeen already.”
“Good luck. If you can even get anywhere close to the people. Those things suck.”
“What are you going to do?” Superman meant it as a rhetorical question; a verbal shrug.
“Strike is what I’m going to do. I already talked to Sarah and Andrew and –”
“Which one is Andrew?”
“He’s the Hulk. They’re with me. We think we’re going to start on Saturday. After the
premiere.”

6

Cervelloni
“I don’t know...”
“You got to be in on this, Dale. You can’t be out there alone. That defeats the purpose.
Those fucking tourists got to know that we’re freelance. Most think we work for the theater. We
got to let them know we’re not just their little playthings for their fucking pictures.”
“Still... giving up a weekend is tough. Money’s the best on the weekend.”
“The money is shit every day of the week. Come on, Dale. You’re doing this.”
“I’ll have to think about it.”
“Well you just think about this: You probably made less money and took more pictures
than I did today. You telling me that’s fair? You telling me you don’t mind it when people use
you like that? It ain’t right, Dale. It just fucking ain’t right.”
They parted ways on A— street. Batman walked backwards a few steps, pointed at
Superman and said, “Think about it. We’re doing it this weekend.” He flicked his cigarette butt
into the street and left Superman.
•
Superman had read something somewhere that a man set up a bagel station in office buildings.
The man left the bagels out, unguarded, with a jar for people to pay. The honor system. People
paid and the man made a living from it – except at Christmas time and other minor holidays.
People, the article said, are more inclined to think it’s a gift when it’s a holiday, so they don’t
pay for it. To Superman, every day was someone’s holiday; everyone expected their free bagel.
The tourists paid for a flight. They paid for a hotel. They paid for food. And he was a full can of
soda, HBO, or a basket of bread – another free perk in the whole experience. The whole city
thrived on the concept that people felt like they were rich and cared-for here; the belovedthough-unknown celebrity. Money left the tourists pockets with the same abandon and freedom

7

Cervelloni
as the millionaires’ across town. He was just another vacationer’s street-act peddling the same
dream.
His girlfriend Carol had not listened to nor understood Superman’s explanation of the
bagel allegory. She had only said, “What do bagels have to do with it? You’re not a breakfast
food and you don’t walk around with a jar for people to drop money into. You’re not a
panhandler. And I think a strike is stupid and you’re not doing it. You don’t make enough money
as it is and now you want to stop working? Ridiculous. How many other people will be right
there to take your spot? How many people will even know you’re gone? How many people
won’t come to the theater because you’re not there? Don’t think you’re so big and important.
You’re an actor. You said it yourself: sometimes you have to take the roles that aren’t so great
just so you can get your name out there. So... go get your name out there.”
“Fine,” Superman said. Carol leaned over the counter and kissed his cheek. “How was
your day?” he asked.
Carol popped open the microwave door before the timer buzzed and followed
Superman’s segue into a detailed analysis of a fellow co-worker. The couple sat down to their reheated dinner. They held hands as they said prayers and Carol turned on the television and the
couple laughed at a sitcom. In bed that night, Superman lay awake debating options and
strategies for the strike while Carol, believing the matter resolved, slept.
He awoke at nine the next morning and made coffee. He ate and drank and read the
newspaper in front of the bowl of dyed blue milk. He held the whole paper up in front of his face
– never folding it back on itself or removing an inserted inner page – scanning the first few
paragraphs of each article until he grew uninterested in the details. Carol sat on the other side of
his periodical, spooning her cereal into her mouth as she glanced over a magazine she had spread

8

Cervelloni
out on the table before her. When she finished, she pulled his paper down and kissed him on the
forehead.
“I was thinking about the strike last night and –” he said.
Carol stopped at the door and looked back. “No. It’s settled. You’re not doing it.”
She left and Superman took a leisurely shower. Dressed in his costume. Gelled his hair
straight back. Zipped up his red boots. Checked himself thoroughly in the mirror. Then he left.
From the moment he stepped from his apartment on the seventh floor, he puffed his
chest, shoulders back, chin to the sky, a confident-but-not-vain smile and a forced deepness in
his tone. As he exited the building, he held the door for a woman entering and nodded heroically.
She rolled her eyes as she passed through the door. The usual car horns, high-fives and “Hey,
Superman” shouts accompanied him to the plaza. To each he held his hand high, either to be
struck by a smiling pedestrian or to acknowledge and thank a honking car for its attention.
Batman paced in front of the theater. The first movie did not start for another few minutes
and the dearth of a crowd put a noticeable anxiety in his steps.
“I don’t even know why I come here before noon,” Batman said. He raised his arms with
a shrug and let them drop. They slapped against his rubber suit. “A dollar. Been here a fucking
hour and I’ve got a dollar.”
“It could be nothing. At least it’s that.”
“At least it’s that? Would you listen to yourself? You –”
Superman saw a couple approaching. He elbowed Batman and Batman shut up and they
both smiled at the approaching pair. The man was the only tourist in the plaza wearing long pants
and long sleeves. His wife wore hiking boots. “You with?” the man said in a broken European
accent. “Camera? Me?” He wiggled his index finger; the universal sign for picture. The woman

9

Cervelloni
held up her camera and pointed to it, oscillating the camera through Superman, Batman and her
husband.
“I’d be happy to,” Superman said with a Superman grin. “We work on tips if that’s
okay?” He fanned his fingers to show his small roll of bills.
“Oh yes, okay. Okay,” The man said. He tucked himself under Superman’s and Batman’s
arms. They held the smiles while the wife turned the camera on, focused and snapped. The
superheroes stood still while man and wife swapped. Another awkward pause and more foreignlanguage and smiling.
“Thank you, thank you,” the woman said. She smiled more and waved goodbye. The man
did likewise. They wandered away, taking photos of the theater from obscure angles and without
premeditation; lost souls happy in purgatory.
“I think we need to start asking for money up front.” Batman surveyed the plaza. “That
was some bullshit right there.”
“They’re not even from America. They barely spoke English. Sometimes you just have to
let it go.”
“Yeah, whatever. I’ll let it go when I’m not living in a shithole apartment in a shithole
city and dealing with shithole people.” Batman pointed to three young men entering the plaza.
“See these guys?” He did not lower his voice. “Five bucks says they ask for a picture with one of
us and don’t give us a dime. College boys out on break or some shit. Rich kids with mommy and
daddy’s credit cards and they won’t give a fucking dollar. You just watch.”
A boy in a popped-collar polo approached the idle superheroes. “You guys cool if we
take a picture with you?” He chewed a piece of gum with a small sucking sound. Superman

10

Cervelloni
noticed a churlish curve to the boy’s smile, like he was participating in a prank. His two
accomplices stood a few feet behind, one with a camera at the ready.
“I’d be happy to,” Superman said. “We work on tips if that’s okay.” He held out his hand,
his thumb palming the money, and then the money was gone from sight.
“We work on tips,” Batman said. His tone was gruff. “Get it? Tips?” He held up several
folded bills pinched between thumb and forefinger. He waved the bills in the boys face and the
boy craned his neck back.
“Yeah, I get it. Can I just take the picture?”
Batman and Superman encircled the boy. Superman put hands against his hips and looked
above the camera, his face full of pensive bravado as if danger called him in the distance.
Batman held out his fists like a turn-of-the-century pugilist and tightened his lips. The boy held
out the forefinger and pinky on each hand, opened his mouth and dropped out his tongue. The
photographer snapped the shot.
“Thanks, bro.”
As the boy walked away, Batman called out to him. “Hey, dipshit. How about a tip?”
The boy turned around. His two friends shared his look of surprise. “What?” he said,
recalcitrance in his voice.
“A tip.” Batman took a step towards them. “You know. Like paying someone for services
given.”
“Yo, Adam West,” the boy said, “you spent all of five seconds standing there while my
friend,” he emphasized the possessive pronouns, “took a picture of me on my camera. A
cardboard cutout could have done your job.” The boy started to walk away.

11

Cervelloni
From their previous interactions, Superman developed prescience to Batman’s anger.
Batman clenched his fists at his hips. His arms went stiff straight, his back rigid and the tension
in his hands disguised under the rubbery gloves. Superman saw Batman assume the position,
holding his own fists down as if they were a separate part of the body; a rogue faction inciting
insurrection. Superman stepped forward and put his hand on Batman’s shoulder.
“Carl...” Superman said. Batman ripped his shoulder free of Superman’s hand and
followed the boy.
“Hey, kid,” he called out. When the boy turned, Batman’s fist came up fast and the boy
was on the ground before Superman registered the movement. Batman stood over the boy, whose
nose showed the first trickle of blood. “You little shit.” The boy looked up wide-eyed and
seemed unaware of how he had arrived on the ground. “We work for our money unlike you
assholes. Fuck you if you think you’re so special. Stand up if you think you’re better than me.”
The boy on the ground and his friends on their feet stared. Batman waited for a response but
none came. The boy leaned up on one elbow and pinched his nose with his free hand. “That’s
what I thought.” Batman spat. It hit the boy’s shirt.
Superman froze. He felt the weight of the crowd, their eyes on him and not on the
assailing Batman or the bloodied youth: the wounded boy’s friends, the eyewitnesses close at
hand, the flow of moviegoers coming from the theater, the passengers’ eyes in the passing cars,
the tourists watching the conflict like any other reality show, a security guard stepping from the
entrance of the theater and shielding his eyes in the sun.
“Carl...” Superman grabbed Batman’s bicep and pulled him back. Batman jerked his arm
free of Superman’s loose grip and stomped through the plaza and disappeared around the corner.
Superman stooped to the fallen boy and held out his hand. The boy swatted at Superman and

12

Cervelloni
Superman stepped back and shielded with his hands; a weak instinctual defense. The boy said,
“Fuck off,” with a pinched-nose buzz. The other boys retrieved their fallen friend and a woman
came from the crowd to hand them a small bag of tissues. Superman fled as the security guard
arrived.
•
Superman stood with the throng waiting outside the theater, a head taller than the majority of onlookers, and his cape catching the breeze and whipping adjacent torsos. Police barricades kept
the crowds leashed from the street and the red carpet. A line of limousines filed down the street
and from them emerged well-dressed attractive people, their importance measured by the number
of flashbulbs firing and the volume of cheers as their feet extended from the vehicle.
Superman held a small autograph book in one hand and a felt-tipped marker in the other.
As actors stepped from their limousines, Superman, in the cacophony of the crowd, shouted their
first names and held out his autograph book and pen. During a lull, as he leaned against the metal
partition, he felt a tap on his shoulder, rough and deliberate. A police officer curled his finger
indicating Superman was to follow. They squeezed past the tight-packed bodies. Superman
recognized the officer. The security guard he had seen in the plaza the day before. The one to
advance in his direction before he ran, and Superman suspected his own arrest. But the man did
not seem motivated to action and his face betrayed annoyance, not retribution or justice. He was
friendly but phlegmatic, polite but officious.
“Sorry, Superman. New rules. Not allowed during a premiere.” He pointed to the S on
Superman’s chest.
“But I’m not here for work.” He held up the autograph book and the pen.
“Sorry, man. Rules are rules.”

13

Cervelloni
“But I’m here as a private citizen. I’m just trying to....”
“Go home and take the costume off and then come back. You want to be here, you come
dressed like everyone else.”
“It’s not a law. I would have heard about it if...”
“The theater is private property. They don’t allow it anymore.”
“I’m not on private property. Look.” He pointed down to grooved cement; a military
demarcation line. “I’m on the sidewalk side of the line. It’s public property.”
“Not tonight it’s not.”
“This is ridiculous. I’m...”
He stopped, waiting to be interrupted. The police officer looked at Superman expectantly.
His eyebrows up to say, “And?” Superman dropped his shoulders and left. Only its seventeen
celebrity signatures stopped him from slamming the book into a garbage can. Half a block away
he heard a large eruption from the crowd and knew that he had missed his eighteenth.
•
The next morning he awoke at the same time and followed his same routine. Carol kissed
him goodbye and he went to his closet to dress. He pulled one of the four blue costumes from the
rack. He looked at it a moment, pensive and reticent; a penurious customer contemplating an
expensive purchase. He returned the hanger to the bar and pushed aside the costumes, relegating
them to a dark corner of the closet. He lifted out a t-shirt and pulled it over his head. It
discomfited him to wear loose-fitting boxers and mesh shorts. Outside in the heat, his t-shirt
seemed incredibly loose. The air on his knees and through his leg hair felt refreshingly ticklish.
Superman had not been to the plaza without his costume since he first moved to the city.
That had been three years ago with Carol. They had made it a point to visit the theater even

14

Cervelloni
though they had no plans to see the movie playing – they went for the iconography not
functionality. They took a picture together with the theater backdrop, Superman wrapping Carol
in one arm and extending his other with the camera pointed back at them. They had to take
several. The first picture caught only Superman, the second only Carol. Then mixed varieties of
the tops of their heads or of their lower chins and necks. It was Batman who approached and
volunteered his photographic services. Carol had slapped Superman playfully when she saw their
first well-framed photograph ruined because Superman stuck out his tongue and was giving her
bunny ears. After one more picture and a dollar for Batman, they left with a well-framed picture
and an idea for a job. For their anniversary – after the first few months of Superman’s
employment outside the theater – it was a self-taken, misaligned picture he chose to frame and
wrap.
Superman sauntered around the plaza. Blending into the ambling congregation unsettled
him. As Superman, people had always watched him. Looked at him. Even if they did not want a
picture. Even if they were just passing by, he caught everyone’s attention. Without his cape, he
was a mere tourist. He was one of the many there to take pictures and buy an expensive movie
ticket and over-priced candy and tell friends they had been there.
“Hey, Dale,” a voice called. Superman did not recognize Batman at first. He wore light
blue jeans that tapered down and ended at white hightops. Without the padding of his costume,
Batman’s hips and calves looked thin and brittle. Without the black eye make up, he lost the
intimidating countenance. “What are you doing here, man?” He patted Superman’s back. “Crazy
isn’t it?”
“What’s crazy?”

15

Cervelloni
“Look around? What don’t you see?” Batman held out a hand, as if demonstrating that
one day this kingdom would all be his.
“No superheroes,” Superman said. He had not noticed their absence, only felt his own.
“No fucking superheroes. We fucking did it, man. All of them. They’re all on board.”
Superman scanned the crowd. People posed below the theater’s bright-lit sign or by the
main entrance. Some pointed to the attraction. Some made funny faces. Girls posed as Charlie’s
Angels and boys held up their Rock-On hands. Others stood excitedly in line at the ticket office.
“Why are you here now?” Superman asked.
“I’m just making sure no one breaks their agreement. And to make sure no one thinks
they can just come and take our spots.” He paused for a second. “Why are you here?”
“I...” Superman did not know why. He had always come here. Every day. For years. It
felt unnatural to wake up and not dress for work. He never thought about coming. He just came.
“I... came to see the movie.”
Batman turned pensive, as if he were contemplating an enigma neither had the cognition
to solve. “Ever been inside before?” he asked.
“No. You?”
“No.”
“Want to come with me?” Superman asked.
“Fuck it. Might as well.” He clapped Superman on the back again.
Superman stood with Batman to buy his ticket for the movie. Metal barriers, disjointed
and stacked, sat in a corner, the only remnants from the premiere the night before. The spotlights
and red carpet had long since gone. The celebrities had watched their movie and departed;
perfunctory appearances and disinterested goodbye waves.

16

Cervelloni
Superman did not enjoy the movie. Batman laughed at few scenes.
On their way out, they were stopped by a tourist. “Excuse me, sir,” the young man said.
He held up a camera. “Would you mind taking a picture of my girlfriend and me?” Superman
smiled and said yes and stopped himself from saying, “We work on tips” as habit had inculcated
him. He took the camera and the young man ran back a few paces and put his arm around his
girlfriend. “And can you get the whole theater in the background?” The young man leaned in and
gave the girl a quick peck on the neck. The girl pinched her cheek to her shoulder and giggled.
Superman brought the camera to his eye. Through the viewfinder he framed the couple in the
center and filled the background with the red front façade of the theater. They were so idealistic.
So happy to be at the theater in the ninety-degree heat. To be with one another and spending
money as if it would never run out. “You get it?” the young man asked after Superman had held
the camera to his face for several seconds. Superman pushed the button. The display screen
showed the man taking a step toward Superman and the camera, his mouth half-open, his arm
letting go of the girl.
“Yeah, I got it.” He handed him the camera. “Enjoy your vacation. Thanks again,” he
said, another force of habit. Superman ignored the snide remark from Batman as he walked away
from the couple as they huddled together to see their new memory.

17


