From the bus stand, Jessica chose to walk the sandy path to the left of the Polhena Beach
Hotel, rather than enter the lobby and walk through it, to the Devil Dance ceremony taking place
out back. She was to meet up with Stefan, her anthropologist boyfriend of three months. Behind
her, the ocean broke upon the large reef, and a few gulls called out above the waves.
The path led her into a small patch of jungle, and then, curved away from the hotel.
Muted ceremonial drumming thumped down the path towards her. The trail darkened in the
twilight, and she hurried her pace. A few children ran towards her.
One of them reached out her hand and said, “Toffees?”
“No toffees.”
They ran on ahead of her. Even though everyone knew the white lady school teacher
from America, some of the villagers still thought of her as a rich foreigner—one who must be
unhappy because she did not have a husband yet.
The path opened out into the clearing. To her right, the small, but modern face of the
hotel’s verandah gazed placidly upon the ceremony. The crowd was gathered straight ahead of
her where the field ended at the front of a few village houses. The ceremony took place between
the crowd and the houses. Jessica looked over the small crowd and noticed the exorcist walking
about in front of the patient, a small girl of 11. He was joined by a small group of drummers. A
Buddhist monk sat nearby with the girl’s family. To Jessica’s left stood a bamboo hut where the
patient would eventually go to be healed. The top of its ceremonial archway displayed a fresco of
the devil’s face.
The drummers started into a frenetic rhythm on their oblong instruments, and the dancers,
men dressed in white sarongs and headbands, cavorted around the ceremonial grounds with lit
torches. Jessica could see Stefan’s tall figure hunched over a notebook near the front. She also
noticed several familiar faces around the crowd from her village, her school, and Matara town.
In fact, nearly all of Jessica’s host family including “amma” Gunasekera and her three
sons, sat in the back of the ceremony. The eldest brother, waved for her to come join them.
Jessica braced herself.
“Aybowan. How is everyone?”
“Why you did not send telegram?”
“Always worrying amma,” said the eldest brother to his mother. “Miss Jessica is smart.
She is a woman, not a girl.”
“Thanks, aiya.” Jessica said. Calling him “big brother” left a good impression on Mrs.
Gunasekera. Jessica wanted to redirect her inquisitiveness about her getaways to Unawatuna
bay— the small tourist village where she and Stefan met up. But this was Sri Lanka, after all.
Life in the fish bowl.
“I still have to do some work with a friend,” she informed them. “After tonight, I may not
be home until Sunday.”
To Mrs. Gunasekara she added, “Don’t worry, amma. If I need anything, I promise to
telegram.”
Jessica placed her hands in prayer-like fashion and slowly bowed. “I will go and come.”
The brothers all laughed.
Even Mrs. Gunasekara offered a puritan smile.
Jessica walked towards the ceremony, but still felt their protective eyes watching her
every step. The nearer she got to the ceremonial circle, with the singing, drumming and torches,
the more she felt out of place. A heaviness sunk into her belly. She looked at the dancers and the
faces of some bystanders. Although she’d been to several ceremonies since she’d started her
teaching assignment last year, this time, the “patient” was the younger sister of her favorite
student Vimala. Plus, Stefan was employing her to help study the ritual. Gather data. Take
photos. Write descriptions. Good practice for grad school.
She approached Stefan, where he stood near the dancing area, his khakis a light contrast
to the festive saris. She wanted to kiss him openly, but she resisted, still feeling the eyes of her
host family and the entire village upon her.
“Good evening, professor?” she said.
“‘Bout time. Thought you’d decided to stay at Unawatuna.”
“Sri Lankan time,” she said. “Besides,” she continued in a quiet tone, “I’m not sure how
to take it when a man hurries away from me to go to work. It’s so married.”
His face tensed. “Anyway, Dr. Hall sends his regrets. Board meetings with the Asia
Foundation and the British Council in Colombo.”
“Is it serious?”
“It’s about funding. You know how that goes. But he said he’d meet us here tomorrow
night.”
She felt relieved that Stefan did not appear to be too concerned. If funding for Stefan’s
project was cut, that would mean he’d probably return to Indonesia where he’d done research
before. And she was just sounding out how serious they would become.
He pointed over to Shahera’s family. “Why did they consider her in need of an
exorcism?”
“Well, that depends,” Jessica said, “on whether you think it makes sense to have your
life arranged by one’s parents, or to have a life of your own choosing.”
“Ah, yes. We’re grateful of your knowledge about the locals. But we’re here in the
interests of science, aren’t we?”
Jessica could have argued further and told him about how, in class debates, Vimala had
wanted to argue the side of love marriages but she was afraid of getting a reputation.
“Well, her name’s Shahera,” Jessica said. “Her father’s a bank clerk, and her mother’s a
schoolteacher. She’s the sister of one of my students. She’s 11. She’s resisting an arranged
marriage.”
The exorcist sang in Sinhalese, and the dancers repeated phrases. This exchange
prompted a few of the crowd members to reply, and a wave of laughter spread through the
ceremony. But they spoke so fast, Jessica couldn’t translate.
She opened her bag. She’d packed an extra set of batteries, her notebook, a copy of Hall’s
ethnography of Devil Dances, the 35 mm Minolta her mother had given her the day she’d left,
and the tape recorder her father had sent after she’d been in country a few months. She’d rebelled
against her parents’ wishes by coming overseas, just as she’d done after their divorce; English
instead of pre-med, student loans instead of their money. She took out the tape recorder, the
camera, and Hall’s book.
Two dancers placed a curtain of bamboo between the patient and the exorcist. Jessica
wondered what Stefan thought about the ceremony, about her. She said, “He’s telling them the
story of how the earth goddess protected the Buddha.”
He didn’t reply and that made her feel anxious. She rushed to fill in the silence. “Well,
you probably know more about this stuff, anyway.”
Stefan said and kicked the sand with his hiking boots. “I mean there are always some
things that are similar from one culture to another.”
“Like?”
“Well, the patterns of local religions, medicine, mixing with whatever the dominant
religion happens to be. In Bali, it’s Hinduism. Here it’s Buddhism.”
She did like listening to him talk the talk. He was fun in bed, cute, and intelligent.
Nothing like the occasional one night stand she’d had before meeting him.
“Well, it’s all there in Hall’s book,” Stefan said. “What does he say?”
She tilted the book towards the light from the ceremony and read a few lines aloud.
The exorcist will attempt to deflect the destructive powers coming from the
magical source that prompted the symptoms that affect the patient However, in
order to effect a competent counter-magic, an exorcist must be schooled in the
variety of symptoms, illnesses and how they relate back to the twelve recurring
demons.
She grew impatient with the tedious roundabout language. She also felt as if the others
were watching them. For the first time, she vividly imagined the gossip that might follow. “Miss
Jessica and Mr. Stefan. They will marry.” She closed the text. “Well, what I was always told is
that he’s trying to trick the demons into thinking he’s the patient so he can engage them in a kind
of spiritual wrestling match.”
“I love wrestling. What happens after that?”
Wrestling? Jessica thought. But then they were both still getting to know one another.
She pointed to the small hut beneath the bamboo decorations. “Depends. I’ve seen them destroy
the bamboo archway at some rituals. Then, supposedly the patient emerges from that hut,

Fabiano 6

reborn.” She handed the book to Stefan. “So in this case, Shahera will be ready to do what her
parents want her to do. Of course, she won’t actually marry until she comes of age. Still, it’s
foolproof. And it doesn’t cost nearly what a therapist would.” She appreciated his smile at her
joke.
She set to work with her camera. She held a little pad to write notes about each shot. She
saw Vimala, her student, wearing a dark gold and brown patterned sari, handing guests a strand
of the “pirith” string, with a deliberate bowing of her head. When Vimala noticed her, Vimala’s
face failed to offer her usual animated smile, but she did earnestly hold out her right hand to
beckon Jessica to sit beside her. Jessica thought again about how she’d given Vimala, the love
marriage captain, extra coaching that helped her team win.
Jessica walked over and greeted Vimala’s family in Sinhalese. She politely refused their
invitation for tea.
“Shahera, can I take your picture?”
The young girl smiled and handed Jessica a strand of the white string. She whispered in
Jessica’s ear, “I’m not scared. Just masks. It’s not real yakas.”
“You are very brave.” Jessica said, holding the string in her right hand. Then she looked
through the viewfinder of her camera. Shahera’s light-brown face filled the lens and for a
moment the girl’s determined expression, soft smile, and large brown eyes impressed Jessica.
Jessica snapped the photo and then hugged Shahera. She thanked Vimala and her parents, and
walked away, placing the string in her shirt pocket.
Jessica joined Stefan, who held the tape player. “What’s the string for?”
“A favorable blessing from Buddha for the exorcism,” she said and snapped a photo of
him. She took more photos of the dancers, musicians and exorcist, but each time she angled the

Fabiano 7

lens, she thought about Shahera’s innocent voice saying, “…not real devils.” Jessica knew that
the ceremony would be a long ordeal, and she wondered if Shahera’s spirit would be broken. She
knelt as she felt herself starting to cry. This was harder than she’d thought. Why couldn’t they
just let the poor girl alone?
The exorcist carried a torch to the entrance of the bamboo hut, and he tossed in burning
resin. One of the dancers went into the home of Vimala’s family and burned resin in each room.
The odor of sulfur penetrated.
Stefan asked, “What’s this about?”
“They’re purifying the patient’s home, and the hut, where they will lead her later on.”
She smiled watching as Shahera made faces back at the three dancers.
Stefan lit a cigarette. “When do they cut off the rooster’s head?” He offered her a
cigarette, but she declined.
“That’s the last day.”
“Poor bird.” He pointed towards the young girl, her small body in its white sari. “Can you
tell me more about her case?”
Case? Jessica thought. But she caught herself. Science, right? She pointed to a robust
man with a large mustache, dressed in a black suit coat and white sarong, holding a black
umbrella. “He’s the village matchmaker who helped Shahera’s parents with her arrangement.
Vimala said her sister wouldn’t even meet the suitor for tea. Pretty strong for a young female.
Her parents believe she was sick with demons because she refused.”
“So, by driving out these ‘demons’, they’ll settle her down. I suppose it means they’re
scaring the hell out of her.”

Fabiano 8

Jessica felt irritated by Stefan’s tone, in which she detected something more than just
irony. But she checked herself. She wanted to have fun, and she wasn’t sure but that maybe she
was just being affected by the ceremony.
They stood closer to one another, without touching. She sensed him straining too.
“In any case, Jessica. We have enough photos.”
They said goodnight at the foot of the hotel veranda and agreed to meet at Unawatuna.

Jessica stood on the small balcony of their usual room at the Full Moon Beach Inn. Tiny
columns of blue smoke rose up with whispers from the breakfast fires along the thin stretch of
jungle that edged against the sand. A fishing canoe bobbed on the green-blue water just inside
the foaming reef of the small bay. The occupant, an old man, worked a large rope net steadily,
and then waved towards the shore where a girl, who looked like Shahera, reached to pet the
fanlike tail of a peafowl. The bird flew several feet ahead. The girl persisted in spite of a
reproach from the man in the boat. Again the bird flew out of reach. Jessica wanted to help her
but what would she do with a peacock?
For a moment she just listened; the gentle splash of ocean waves, tinny sounds of a radio
far off playing Bob Marley’s “One Love,” people shouting on the beach below, the water
dripping in the shower. She felt alone. The silence between the occasional shouts and the crash
of a wave began to engulf her.
Jessica smiled and went back into the room to take a shower. She found Stefan’s shaving
bag which he’d left behind. She felt the smooth black leather and opened the bag. A disposable
razor, toothbrush, dental floss, and mini soap were all tucked neatly into their respective slots.
She pulled back on an inside zipper; a few Trojans and several irregularly shaped slips of paper

Fabiano 9

with names and phone numbers on them. She decided she’d violated his privacy enough, zipped
everything back into order. She stepped into the shower as someone knocked.
“Stefan?”
“Yeah.”
“I’ve ordered brunch. I’ll be out in a minute.”
As she showered, she imagined she was preparing herself for a fertility ritual. She came
out from the shower, wrapped in a large white towel and lay down in the sun on the striped
chaise lounge. She let her towel drop around her.
“Sexy,” Stefan said.
“Listen to the waves!”
She lifted up a copy of Buddhist Verses and said, “Seeing how you know Hinduism,” she
said, “I thought I’d indoctrinate you properly into Buddhism.”
Stefan nodded, closed his eyes against the sunshine, and leaned back, and she read out
loud:
When I rain down the rain of Dharma
Then all this world is well refreshed
Each one according to their own power
Take to heart this well-preached Dharma, one in taste.

“Ponder that, grasshopper.” Before she drew him to her, she wanted to savor the moment.
What did he feel about here and now and her? Did he listen to how the wind rustled the palm
leaves, how naggingly the village dogs barked? Could he hear just then a woman’s far off voice
and the children playing?

Fabiano 10

She heard a knock on the door and covered herself with the towel. A waiter brought in a
tray with sliced papaya, lime wedges, cucumber sandwiches and tea. He handed a telegram to
Stefan, who stood, and tipped him.
“It’s from Hall. Says he wants me there for dinner.”
Jessica sat up, covering herself and crossing her legs. “What time is it now?”
Stefan looked at his watch and back at the telegram. “Damn near 2.” He tossed the
telegram on the tray and winked at her. “Guess we’ll have to pick up where we left off later.”
“Figures!”
“What? I have to help Hall. You do too, but you don’t need to be there till later.”
Jessica stood and tightly wrapped the towel around her body. “If you ask me, the whole
ritual is stupid.”
“What?” Stefan stepped back, leaning against the balcony. “I thought you were interested
in anthropology?”
“Does everything have to be about culture? What about the patient?”
“These people have customs. Think about them.”
“I am doing that.” She held on to the knot of the towel.
“No, you aren’t. Listen, they have traditions and they don’t need an American school
teacher to change them. Besides, your position here is to teach English not women’s rights. And
your job today is to take pictures.”
“Do you have any values?”
“Science. The truth.”
“Well maybe you should try fucking science for a change.”
“That’s intelligent.”

Fabiano 11

“Look Stefan you are afraid of the truth so bad you bury your head in all that ethnobullshit.” She left him on the veranda while she went in and dressed.

She returned to the last evening of the Devil Dance and joined Stefan and Dr. Hall, who
were overlooking the ritual from the verandah of the Polhena Beach Hotel. Dr. Hall perused
several manila folders. A small crowd sat on the ground near the ceremonial area effused with a
waning violet light. The seaward breeze jostled the coconut palms and the surf thudded down
the shoreline. She snapped a photo thinking she’d entitle it, “Wasted Beauty.”
She looked at the ceremony and her heart sank. She knew Shahera had probably gone
through a barrage of incantations, chants, spells, and god knows what else. The feeling that had
dampened her spirits with Stefan grew heavier.
“How were your meetings, Dr. Hall?” Jessica asked. She took a seat around the small
table.
Dr. Hall rubbed his hands together as if washing them. He was never one for small talk.
“Well, as I told Stefan, I have bad news. And good news.”
Jessica leaned closer to Stefan.
“The foundation is shutting down my project here in Sri Lanka.” He tapped a finger on
the files and continued. “They said Sri Lanka was only worth a one-book study. Princeton’s
going to go with the foundation and focus on Southeast Asia. Seems that’s the academic fad.
Anyway, I’m to pull up stakes and move everything to Jakarta.”
Jessica looked at Stefan. “What about you?” She thought of their plans. But they hadn’t
any real plans to speak of. She felt as if she was missing something, like their future was an

Fabiano 12

afterthought, something that would come or it wouldn’t. After their argument, she wondered if
they should even stay together. But maybe she was being too hard on him.
Stefan lit a cigarette and said, “Dr. Hall says my British Council grant is ok for a year.”
“That’s right, though at reduced pay. After that, I don’t know if they will continue.”
“That’s the bad news,” Stefan said.
Hall smiled and pulled a folder from the bottom of his stack. “Right. There’s funding for
a couple of research assistants, next year. Think about it.”
Jessica smiled but avoided Hall’s eyes. If she wanted, Stefan and she could stay together
this year, and then, she could go to Indonesia and learn anthropology. That was a bit too much,
too fast for one accustomed to living on Lanka-time, where 9:00 a.m. meant noon and saying
goodbye meant I shall go and come back whenever.
“The duties,” Hall continued, “won’t be anything glamorous, though. Paper work, typing
field notes, preparing manuscripts. And it will require you to do some coursework. After all,
Peace Corps work, while valuable in its own way, is teaching English, not doing anthropology.”
She slung her backpack off her shoulder and onto the ground.
Dr. Hall glanced at the documents in the folder he held, nodded towards Stefan and
asked, “So you’re interested in the pantheon then?”
“Yes,” he said, eyeing the folder that Hall placed on the table.
Dr. Hall shuffled through some papers, and then nodded. “Go on.” And then it began.
They seemed engulfed in a world of cigarette smoke and cultural theories that swirled around
them and faded into the twilight air, only to be replaced by other ideas.
“Stefan can we talk?” asked Jessica, but they both ignored her. Jessica imagined what it
would be like to practice anthropology. She wasn’t sure that she had the passion for it, after all.

Fabiano 13

Her smile disappeared. She listened to Stefan, and considered their differences. Stefan
was dedicated to his work, but Jessica knew that could be a bad thing, too. Besides, she
wondered about Stefan’s true feelings, even as she was becoming surer of her own.
Dr. Hall flagged a waiter.
“Yes sir,” said an elderly man dressed in a white sarong and holding a tray.
“Just a moment.” Dr. Hall raised his left hand in the direction of the ceremony. “Jessica,
could you capture some of the ceremonial archway and such on film for me?”
Jessica nodded out of instinct, as if she just remembered these two needed time to talk
about important things while she went over and took pictures. But still, she was glad at first for
the shift from purely academic topics.
“And please remember. We are here to observe, not interfere.”
She looked at Dr. Hall and felt a warm tingling in her face. Then she looked at Stefan.
A quick anger drummed in her arms, and she hastened to grab her pack and leave the
patio, lest her face betray her irritation. Science, yes of course. She could tell them that Shahera
just wanted a chance at her own destiny. She thought, they didn’t have to go through all of this.
What if Shahera is out there scared and sick? And I’m not supposed to help her? Somehow
Jessica wanted to make a difference. She knew these rituals, these people.
She looked across the clearing towards the ceremony, and was greeted by the fretful elder
Gunasekera.
“Miss Jessica. Please forgive me. I know you want to work, but amma ask if you can
come tonight. She is worry. And she will not let me go to visit my friends unless you come
home. What to do?”

Fabiano 14

Jessica realized that amma didn’t need her, but that he had been sent to spy on her. “I just
have a little more to do.” She held up her camera.
“I can wait?”
Jessica looked over her shoulder at the verandah where Hall and Stefan sat in
conversation. She felt the same stifling around her as if she were in her room. Then she started
walking towards the ceremony. “No. You can’t stay. Just leave me alone.”
“Miss Jessica is upset?”
“Damn it. Go to your friends, or go home, or stay, or whatever.” She didn’t wait for a
reply, but walked to a nearby table, and plopped down her pack. She tried breathing to calm
herself. How she disliked this constant fishbowl, and worse—to show that kind of irritation.
The ceremony continued in a more somber tone. Shahera sat alone in the small hut. The
drums started, and the exorcist sang to their beats, the other dancers serving as a chorus. Torches
lit the area, and their yellow flames cast a pale light to the dusk. The waves thumped on the shore
as if calling to the drummers. Jessica looked at Vimala’s family: a weary, gray-haired father; a
teary-eyed mother in a colorful sari; the two younger brothers asleep on mats. Jessica watched
as Vimala, standing behind her mother, pointed toward the hut at the other end of the grounds.
Jessica imagined what it might be like to take a photo of the ceremony seated next to the mother.
So close to her perception. Wouldn’t Hall appreciate that? As she approached them, Vimala
came up to her.
“Miss Jessica, you are well? Your face is sad, I think”
“Oh, no. Just tired.” Jessica held the camera at her side. She remembered Shahera’s
brilliant smile in the small viewfinder. She glanced back at Dr. Hall and Stefan. Decked in their

Fabiano 15

khaki outfits, a servant bringing drinks on a tray, they looked like “sahibs,” remnants from Sri
Lanka’s colonial British days. “Vimala, do you think this will change Shahera’s mind?”
“How can I say? It is up to the gods, isn’t it?” Vimala held a lace handkerchief to her
face.
“But you remember our class debates?”
“Sometimes, we may choose badly. Even the love. My opponents perhaps were right,
isn’t it?”
“So are you saying that now you believe the traditions are right?”
“What can we do?”
“But ‘each according to their power take to heart?’” Jessica said.
“Miss Jessica, I must return to my family now.”
They said goodbye, and Stefan walked toward her. She quickened her pace, moving away
from the crowd towards the table where she’d set her pack down. She felt him behind her, a part
of her wanted to smack him. She turned and faced him, the ceremony in the distance.
“Listen, Jess, I know what you’re thinking. I didn’t tell Hall anything about our talk.” he
said and shoved his hands in the pockets of his pants. “What did you want to talk about?”
But Jessica no longer wanted to talk. She was still thinking about her conversation with
Vimala. She looked at Stefan, and then she looked toward the ceremony for a moment, and then
looked at Stefan again. “Do you remember that Buddhist passage I read to you on the balcony?”
“Yes?”
“Each according to their own power take heart? Shahera tried to exercise her power. And
we have power, too. I do.”
“Yeah?”

Fabiano 16

“I can choose to stand here. Take photos for Hall in the interests of science,” Jessica said
and nodded toward the bamboo hut, “or I can go help Shahera realize her power.”
Stefan gave her a puzzled look. “I don’t think that is what Buddha had in mind.”
Jessica felt the beating of the drummers, the soft tropical breeze across her face. She
didn’t want to continue talking but she did. “Why not? It said, take to heart.” She looked him
squarely in the eyes. “Not to mind.”
“Well that’s not Sinhalese tradition.”
“But look at how local customs bend traditions to fit their own needs. Shahera deserves a
choice, even if she doesn’t fit neatly into a thick description.”
“I get it. If you were writing the ethnographies, you’d want to write about feelings. But
it’s all about getting at a systematic world view.”
“Some system. Men forcing little girls into behaving their rules. Men write the
ethnographies and women fetch the artifacts. ”
“Look, Jess. We are all human. That’s not the point.”
The drumming grew louder and then stopped abruptly. The main dancer howled and a
few of the villagers closest to the dancing gasped.
“I told Dr. Hall that I’d go back and help him with some notes.” He lowered his voice and
said, “Don’t do anything drastic, Jessica.”
“Or what?
“Well it’s not going to help your case any if go messing with the ceremony.”
“My case? You don’t even know what is going on here.”
“You’d ruin your reputation here, not to mention what they’d think of the Peace Corps.”
“That’s so odd coming from you. I thought we shared these ideas.”

Fabiano 17

“I do at least, for Westerners. But I don’t interfere with culture.”
“What if they beat her after this because she will not get engaged? Is that ok too, Stefan?
You know, you two will leave here someday, maybe soon, I don’t know. But Shahera has her
whole life to live here. Why should she be deprived of a chance to be her own person?”
“You’ll never get a chance to work with us in Indonesia if you piss Hall off.”
She watched him return to the patio and rejoin Hall with his papers and drinks. The hell
with them both. He can keep his ego and his ethnographies and his stupid little scraps of paper
with some bimbo’s addresses on them. Jessica didn’t think Hall or Stefan knew as much about
these people as she did. She realized that it didn’t matter to them and that made her even angrier.
Jessica wondered if she’d be able to talk with Shahera before the Morning Watch began. But
what could she tell her?
She looked upon the dancers with scorn; for the experience seemed like a ghastly
pantomime, as if the dancers, the village, the whole country were mocking her and her values
about independence, female strength. The devil dance seemed like a scene from a Bosch
painting. What evil had been done to these men that they could think it was ok to inflict this
upon a young female? What a twisted culture.
The lead drummer, whose face glinted with sweat, began a rapid succession of beats. The
dancers adorned themselves with masks to symbolize the presence of the demons passing from
the girl to them. The leader, the tallest, wore red, yellow, and blue strands around his waist, and
donned the largest mask, a grotesque yet festive looking monster. He threw powder into the fire
and it sparkled. Then a thin column of yellow smoke rose and the smell of sulfur permeated the
grounds. Jessica felt dizzy. Through the haze and the drumming, she could make out the frail
outline of Shahera in the tiny ceremonial hut.

Fabiano 18

Jessica rounded near the back of the hut and peeked in. She gasped and her eyes watered.
Shahera was half asleep and distraught, her clothes dirty. Hall’s ethnographies about patients
only referred to whatever aspects mattered to the exorcism. Medical conditions, social rules,
customs, power relationships and ancestries, instead of their hopes and dreams, their feelings or
ideas.
The drumming increased, and she watched as the exorcist and dancers wound their way
towards the hut. Through the trees, she caught a glimpse of Stefan deep in conversation with
Hall. She’d had enough. Interfering would stop it. For only this one patient. This night.
Jessica dropped her pack and entered the small, musty hut.
“I’m scared, Miss Jessica,” the little girl said. Then she cried softly.
Jessica held Shahera in her arms. “I’m scared too,” she said and leaned back to better
hold the girl.


