Happy Earth Day! A great day the whole world recognizes. Where I grew up Earth Day is
celebrated right in the middle of spring. In my opinion, as with many, spring is seen to be the
most beautiful of seasons as it is when life is appreciated the most. The sun is shining, the rain is
rejuvenating, the plants are blooming, and the seeds of the future are being sown.
I’m so happy that you are born in a day in age that commemorates this day as an international
holiday of gratitude and bliss. Before, this day was only recognized by a caring few. Before many
people were in despair about their relationship with the environment, that recognition of the
situation would only hurt their feelings. We used to have environmental problems, not the
environmental blessings that you guys refer to as today. I imagine it is hard for you to
understand such a state of humanity because you were lucky enough to be born into the paradise
that was established after the Great Restoration. Today you see paradisal gardens everywhere,
no hunger, little to no disparity, just happy people living the best lives they can. People are
healthier than ever with abundance of fresh food at hand and lack of toxins in the air. Trade has
reached a higher quality of sincerity and interconnectedness. Traveling has never been more
exciting and materialism has reached its highest point culturally as people try to use what they
have until the death of them, leading to the highest standard in all that they put their time in.
People are no longer disconnected as they once were; people now are connected to the earth and
its people on a more personal level as they know that if they treat the land and its people good,
such actions come with even better compensations.
Spiritual leaders and scientists came hand in hand during the Great Restoration which brought
peace to the world by uniting everyone to a single cause which was to better our lives in relation
to the earth and ones around us. Before, the karmic balance was leaning towards our
self-destined destruction because people wouldn’t take any heed to what they are doing to this
earth and its negative effect on future well-being. All praise be to the people who took action
through perfecting their own lifestyles and teaching others how to do so themselves. Those are
the powerful people we admire in today’s society, the true heroes who lead people out of misery
and towards a heaven on earth. Before power could be bought, this led to people valorizing what
they take from one another rather than what one can give one another. Poverty was rampant;

the contradiction was so deep that the starving poor were providing food to the wasting rich
(who were truly poor in spirit). As a man of my time, even I (and others who most would
consider ‘good people’) contributed to this evil by consuming products, consciously or not, that
harmed mother earth and her inhabitants. Until this day our past evil doing still remains in
display, the remnants of our plastic consumption and lost lands due to desertification remain a
scar only to be viewed upon as a dark past and why we can never go back. All that garbage was
not worth the cost, even someone as I who was born on the richer side of the disparity, felt
emptiness eternally. Depression ran rampant amongst the poor and the rich… in search of
wholesomeness, finally then I realized that there is a life worth living for.
From the abundance of what is good at hand, we were able to solve the then growing disparity
and environmental destruction. Many societies before us have fallen due to their heedlessness,
without adaptation a species is left on its own luck for survival. Humanity’s accumulation of
knowledge at this point of time was at a phenomenal high and with the right effort we were able
to adapt and thrive. Conscientiousness against upheaval brought forth civilized peaceful order to
a land once ruled by chaotic brutish forces. People were killing each other and making slaves of
one another, destroying lives and the land that held them with no restraint, sadness and disease
reached all people no matter what class. The discontented people of my day had to ask this
question, “what is the real cost for all this?” and something in our hearts knew that it was not
worth it, some are going to argue it’s human nature but we believe people are inherently good
until corruption occurs.
We offered a way out to all people regardless of their position in the current life, a way that was
sincere and not demeaning, a way that left nobody in harm's way. We only wanted the best for
all people, the previously rich and the then poor would both have their lives bettered from this
systemic change. As a means to an end, people submitted to the idea peace for all and slowed
down their lives to a point that it felt joyfully everlasting. Tasks had to be done and praised to
the good willed policy makers, workers, and educators that made this everything.
Implementation of a strong urban agricultural scene brought people closer to their food and
gave relief to the rural poor and their lands. People were growing their own food which greatly
brought down the pollution output, many coming of which came from synthetic fertilization,
packaging, and transportation costs. We all love our material goods and the Artisan Rival
brought joy to the manufacturer and the consumer more than ever as the artist and goods were

more original and built to last as it was no longer cheapened out by the factory line pollution
producer. To love your water bottle, your carrier bag, your teapot, etc. filled the void of certain
endless desires. If need be, conveniences were made to be disposable so that they don’t scar the
landscape. Quality in all aspects of daily life has heightened, united we live and prosper; together
we started to live better. People are living more sustainable fulfilling lives.
My grandchild, please don’t let our people go astray like they did in my time, the cost was not
worth it in the end. When it’s our time to go and it’s your time to shine, please shine the light
towards absolute goodness, the future rests on you as it did with us. Stay in wonder my
grandchild the world is beautiful if you make it out to be.

Sincerely, Your ancestor


