My dim reflection warped before disappearing from the pitch-black coffee as I tossed in a
scoop of powdered creamer. It twisted like smoke, turning the French roast into an inoffensive
light brown like it always does. The sandy-haired waitress asked me if I needed anything else in
her stilted voice like she always does. No, nothing she could offer me.
I took my first sip of the coffee—too hot. I folded the burnt tip of my tongue over itself
and watched the surly Filipino cook grunt his way through a ham and cheese omelet. The other
waitress, his rail-thin daughter, openly flicked through her phone. Her eyes were a long way off.
Returning from another table, the first waitress stuck a slip of paper above the grill. She was
painfully attractive. Her bouncy curls, the shape of her ass stretching the black cotton of her
skirt, her porcelain skin—all taunted me every time I had my morning coffee there on Mondays,
Tuesdays, and Thursdays. Coincidentally, those were the only days she worked.
Lewis and I had plenty of laughs daring each other to ask her out, or failing that, to slap
her ass, seize her in a passionate embrace, propose to her on the spot. Passive bullshit, you know.
“Commitment,” Lewis always said, “could make anything work. Slap her ass, and when she
turns to you with that expression women get when they feel violated but flattered, just raise your
eyebrows like it’s nothing.” What an asshole.
Thursday mornings I’d come without Lewis and fix my thoughts firmly on her. Her
nametag said Linda. Before, I would watch her in my peripheral and just wonder. I could ask her
out today. It would be easy. Just say it: would you want to grab dinner with me sometime?
Eventually, I’d knock myself down a few pegs. I’m can’t ask her out. Who the hell am I kidding?
As if I’ve changed overnight, as if today will be any different from any other day. It all knotted
my stomach and haunted my thoughts as I drained the coffee down to the few grounds that had
escaped the filter. She would fill it up for me and flash a polite grin, and the thoughts would start
again, until I had demolished my self-esteem to rubble. The perfect start to my Thursdays.
Now, I didn’t spare a single second on her. It was a Monday, but Lewis’s usual seat
remained empty and I thought only of him. Or rather, the lack of him. One week before to the
day, maybe to the hour, Lewis vanished before my eyes. Not like how a magician vanishes, more
like how money in the bank vanishes. Really vanishes. We were talking about coffee. There was
nothing else to talk about, so we felt compelled to fill the silence. We filled it with coffee. Lewis
could make any topic interesting, and he was railing on the lack of quality coffee in America.
Watching Lewis on a rant was a treat. I could’ve sold tickets, $10 general admission,
eight for seniors and kids. “’Real Columbian Coffee,’ they say. ‘Taster’s Choice,’ they say,” he
barked. “These must be some pretty fucking indiscriminate tasters. Are they part-time tasters?
Do they get paid for tasting coffee? What’s the criteria to become a taster—do you need a PhD?”
“They must get bribed.”
“Exactly, you think some lowly taster is going to challenge the Nestle corporation when
they could starve him out if he decides, ‘hey, this coffee tastes like shit’? Or some Columbian
grower is going to have a press conference to say they aren’t actually using only his coffee
beans?”
“Maybe a courageous grower,” I offered.
“No. No is the correct answer. There’s no check on their power or their lies, so they could
sell dirt as grounds and rabbit shit as beans and call it the best thing you’ll ever drink.” Lewis
slammed a hand on the table, adding punctuation. He sat back, confident that his point, whatever
it was, had been made. He sipped his coffee and grimaced. I chuckled.
We lapsed into silence. Even Lewis couldn’t keep the conversation going constantly. We
busied ourselves—Lewis whipped a sugar packet back and forth as I scanned the diner. It was
deserted save for us and the staff. They still seemed to have plenty to do. The waitresses were out
of sight washing dishes, and the cook had his back turned, wrestling with the sizzling grill.
I noticed then that Lewis’s expression had changed and his body seized up. His grin
disappeared and his face went empty, expect for the eyes. There was fear behind his them. He
didn’t move and neither did I. I chuckled, confused, and looked around to see if I was missing
something. I asked something useless but he didn’t respond.
It started at his hands. I looked down at the table, eager to escape his unrelenting stare.
I’ve never been good with eye contact. His hands lay flat on the table, and I noticed his fingers
seemed to be checkered red and white, like the gaudy tablecloth beneath them. They’d become
translucent. I blinked, as if trying to blink away a migraine, and moved my mouth stupidly so
that I might say something useful. I slid my hand across the table to where his hand once was. It
was gone now.
The hallucinatory phenomenon of transparency, of total disappearance, spread outward
from his fingers. Crept up his arms and along his chest and didn’t stop until it had consumed him
whole. We were both silent, his face still frozen. His torso disappeared but for the fluorescent
lighting that bounced off it and the shadow that darkened the linoleum booth behind him. His
head was the last thing to go—his eyes, it seemed to me, but maybe that’s because I was staring
into them the whole time. Eye contact wasn’t quite so painful all of a sudden.
An adult contemporary song played faint over the speakers. Otherwise, there was silence.
It must have lasted ten seconds, but every second heightened to hours. There were no
thoughts abuzz in my head, no concerns for my appearance, no self-imposed pressures to fill the
silence. Only my eyes and his, nothing else, in Lewis’s last moments on Earth. Or in this
dimension, or in this universe, or in this time. Hell, I don’t know. His last moments in some form
or another.
He left me staring at the crack where red linoleum met creamy drywall where he once
was. I remember that square foot of drywall and those seconds of immovability better than I
remember my first day of school, my first kiss, even the look on my father’s face the last time I
saw him.
No one else saw. The waitresses blundered on in insufferable ignorance. Linda returned,
ending my trance, and asked if I wanted anything else. “No.”
His coffee cup was still there, the weak Peruvian blend swirling slowly to a stop. He had
been stirring it mindlessly only seconds before. Linda swooped it up along with the plate that had
held his beloved blueberry muffin. I had to say something.
“Excuse me,” I managed. “Did you happen to see my friend leave?”
She gave me a curious look, probably the longest she’s ever looked at me. “I don’t
remember you being with someone, sir. I’m sorry.” She returned to the kitchen. I watched as she
threw the dishes into the industrial sink, pouring out the coffee and dissolving the artificial
blueberries he left behind.
#
I haven’t been to work since that day. I sat through a typical day, but I couldn’t take a
typical day after that. My mind roamed wildly through possibilities as I went through the script

5
for calls, assuring dissatisfied customers I sympathized with them plenty, but was unable to do
anything.
“Let me speak to your supervisor,” a hefty-sounding woman said. But I was lost,
weighing the possibility of alien abduction again. “Are you still there?”
“Yes, I’m still here,” I lied.
I promised myself I wouldn’t return to the library this morning. I had spent most of the
subsequent waking hours poring over research books and sifting through the internet on a
computer that operated at a snail’s pace. I needed to busy myself with other things. Go to a
movie, play a sport, go hiking—No, not hiking. Too much time alone to think.
Deep down though, I knew I would be back at the infernal gothic building come tonight,
searching through periodicals in vain until closing time when I’d hide in the men’s room stalls to
stay undetected for the night.
I pried myself away long enough to make it home last night. A dozen notes were taped to
the door, one on top of the other, each complaining about the smell. I opened the door, and after
that, I couldn’t blame them. Chaos, the natural state, was reclaiming its 500 square feet.
Overwhelming odors from the dishes left in the sink and the compost in the trash bin made the
air thick. I wondered how long it had been. I managed some sleep despite it all but found the bed
too soft and woke up with my back killing me. I stared up from the bed for an hour or more,
insisting to the blank walls and stucco ceilings of my apartment that I wouldn’t return to the
diner or the library again. They didn’t buy it for one second. More likely I wouldn’t return to the
damned apartment, now a foul-smelling relic from another life. I didn’t go for Linda anymore—I
had come to loathe the sight of the waitress whose modest beauty once entranced me. Where I
once saw beauty, I now saw an absence of personality, insight, and intelligence. I went now for

6
myself and for Lewis, for some shred of hope that drifted further from reach each second that
passed without hearing Lewis rant on and on.
The books and online articles started out relatively concrete. From the Wikipedia article
on spontaneous combustion, to books attempting to shed light on history’s most mysterious
disappearances, to endless literature on abductions and cover-ups. And down, down, down the
rabbit hole. I’m surprisingly well-versed on philosophical history by this point, but little good it
does me. Aristotelianism, cynicism, objectivism, utilitarianism, existentialism, postmodernism—
useless trash for my purposes, unless I needed kindling to start a fire.
I never considered how few friends we had in common until he was gone. I had no way
of contacting his family or friends. He was self-employed, some daring modern artist, pushing
the extremes of what can be aesthetically beautiful or some shit like that. I never asked to see his
art because I didn’t want to lie to him, say it was beautiful and that I understood his intent. His
other friends were the same, artists of his ilk that would find me intolerably passé. Our friendship
was self-contained to the diner. The bastard didn’t believe in social media even, pretentiously
condemning it as the new opiate of the masses.
There was no one to contact. I considered calling the city pigs, or taking the L train to his
neighborhood to start knocking on doors.
I realized only after his disappearance how little I really knew about Lewis. He struck me
as a lively extrovert with little use for routine or silence or passivity or conflicting opinions.
Maybe that was simply the self he projected for my sake, while his artsy friends knew him as a
shy, tortured soul.
How little I knew, how little I know, how little I will ever know.

7
Linda approached the table, the cook a few steps behind her—maybe the first I’d seen
him away from the grill. Linda’s false smile didn’t flicker across her face like usual. She stopped
at my table’s edge, the cook practically growling behind her.
“Sir, I’m going to have to ask you to leave,” she mumbled delicately, wringing her hands.
“You’re scaring the other customers.”
I was scaring customers? They should have been more worried about the ogre sweating
and shedding into their omelets. But sure enough, every pair of eyes populating the silverrimmed tables was squarely on me. I looked at the long adjacent windows, but they were too
smudged to make out my reflection.
I needed to escape this diner anyway, I decided. It reeked of Lewis. Then again, I felt
reckless.
I turned my face back to her and snarled, “Make me.”
#
The joke’s on them, I thought as I rubbed my sore ass, bruised after landing on the
cracked pavement. I didn’t pay for my coffee, nor could I have paid if they’d let me stay—my
accounts are all overdrawn as of yesterday. One too many cups of coffee and one too many packs
of cigarettes. My wallet is little more than a useless bump in my pocket now. Same for my cell
phone which powered down after idling a few nights in the library.
I hopped on the M train west, back to my apartment. I stood the first half of the ride, and
distracted myself by trying to stand steady without the help of the steel poles.
In the dark tunnels between stops, I spotted my dim reflection looking back at me over
the heads of businessmen. I understood then why they booted me from the diner so

8
unceremoniously. Matted hair hung past my cracked eye vessels to my sunken cheeks, and each
article of clothing threatened to fall from my withering frame of a body.
A third of the passengers got off at a stop, and I took the farthest open seat from everyone
and avoided my reflection like a Gorgon. I looked at my fingers. They smelled like stale metal
with city soot embedded in the curves of my palms and dried ink deep beneath my fingernails.
My thoughts circled back to Lewis. I was so god damned sick of thinking about Lewis,
every second of every hour of every day. I had no solace in sleep even. I dreamt of him
constantly, telling me reassuring things or terrifying things or morphing into a fleshy monster.
His words would vanish with him each time I awoke.
I pondered the possibility that I was insane—that Lewis had never existed. I was a pitiful
man, I reflected, the exact kind of isolated, insomniac wacko to concoct a glamorous companion
to fill those long hours spent in a miserable all-night diner waiting for the sun to rise? Not the
most comforting idea, but I talked myself down. I had heard Lewis, felt Lewis, seen Lewis, even
smelt Lewis. I’d caught Linda casting flirtatious glances at him, which I privately brooded over.
No, that wasn’t it, that was lazy, like some contrived twist ending to a bad movie. If I was truly
crazy, what suddenly ended my lengthy delusion called Lewis? After mulling it over for five
stops, I abandoned the thought, another on the pile.
And like that, nothing was left. I’d exhausted every option—alien abduction, spontaneous
combustion, enlightenment, kidnapping, teleportation, holograms, aurora borealis, existential
dilemma, solar flares, poison, invisibility cloaks, self-actualization, black magic, possession,
paranormal activity, and now my own insanity.
Time sped around me, unstoppable, but I didn’t care. My stop came and went. I stared
down at my hands again, but I didn’t focus on the soot between the grooves, but the intricacies of

9
the fleshy grooves themselves. These hands could blend in with the subway seats behind them at
any moment and for any reason. Or no reason. Maybe then I would join Lewis wherever he was.
I alternately flexed and relaxed fingers, skin tightening and loosening around bone and muscle
beneath.
My hands enthralled me in some bizarre way. I felt everything against them and within
them. I felt the thousands of blood cells coursing through purple capillaries surrounded by a vast
system of nerve endings, each made up of more cells that together contained a blueprint for this
great, hulking being they were unwittingly serving with their every movement. Muscles dyed red
with blood contracted and released because of some instinctual reflex drilled into them by my
ancestors, our ancestors. Layer upon layer of skin protected it all from the malicious atoms that I
could feel, even see bouncing against the outermost layer of my skin, which contained more
cells, more living things ruled by function and habit, each believing it acts alone. And all of it a
part of me, another being likewise surrounded by more and more living. And the living can’t be
contained on one planet or even one galaxy, but rather we stretched on and on into an
unknowable nothingness that was itself another living thing in another nerve ending of a
massive, tiny being. The being, like all of us, would die before any time at all had passed to feed
new budding cells that might one day join together to create a different being, still somehow the
same. And on and on and on, all in these hands. For a moment, I saw the spotted tile behind my
fingers as the flesh faded.
The bus screeched to a stop and a lanky dark-skinned man came on board. He held a
stack of flyers above his head. “Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen! I am truly sorry for disturbing
you, but I am not asking for charity! Rather I’m…”

10
A homeless man with leather skin took the seat across from me as the train lurched back
into motion. The homeless man gave me a steely look and nodded his head once. I turned my
eyes down, and let my hands, as solid as ever, fall back to my sides.
Damn, I thought as I shut my eyes and sprawled across three seats and drifted off. I
almost had it.


