The protagonist of my novel was an academic librarian who had fought his way out of
Ozarks poverty to earn his Master’s and a more prestigious position than the one I actually held.
Full of self-doubt, my protagonist had begun to think his struggles meaningless and that he should
have remained in the hills. Every day he sat at his computer, writing stories on company time,
wasting tax money. Maybe he was lucky, but he hated that he spent his days pretending to work.
Here was the crux of it: he hated being a librarian.
I visualized that drafty farmhouse where my widower father still lived. I could go there to
finish my novel, all right, but what would I do for money? Well, Dad had a modest woodworking
business and I knew he’d be happy if I joined in. Raise a big garden, kill a deer once a year; we’d
get by.
Dad owned 200 acres of oak, hickory, walnut, and cedar. Difficult to get to because of the
hills, but one medium-sized tree made twenty stools or twelve sturdy chairs. Alas, Dad had
saturated the small market of Mountain Vale.
We’ve all heard it: don’t quit your day job.
Using my own life to tell the story was tricky. I was the plot, though I trifled with other
stories. Should my hero—let’s call him Tom—be drawn into murder? Falsely accused? Or guilty!
Not my game, murder mysteries, and yet Tom had to do something. Win the lottery, then travel
about the country in a little van, giving money to the needy? Great opportunity for irony when the
money didn’t help.
Work a love story around a campaign to save some endangered animal? Armadillos! They
weren’t endangered, and anyhow they carried leprosy. N.B.: do we own any books about leprosy?


How about a juicy tale in which the disillusioned, world-weary professor falls for a
student? Forbidden fruit, so maybe I’d call her Eve. Eve was a knock-out, of course. As I sat back
in my chair, visualizing her, the phone rang.
“Could you come up, Tom? I need you this afternoon.”
Nearly a semester had passed but our fearsome new dean, Barbara Clarke, and I had
seldom spoken, thus her calling me “Tom” seemed ominous. Already Dean Clarke had enticed or
cajoled three of our doddering staff into early retirement. My own job, Humanities Librarian, had
seemed secure, because I was only thirty-one and had just published an article. That was the
dean’s mission, other than lopping off heads: She wanted us to publish. Maybe—probably—Dean
Clarke wanted to talk about my article.
Nary a studious soul on the first floor except for Cynthia Moore, reference librarian,
peering down through her bifocals at Booklist. Wait. Cynthia lifted her nose to stare resignedly at
two young men, clowning it up by that damned Coke machine. She saw me, shook her head, and
smiled conspiratorily. Reference was a ghost town but Cynthia was my age and probably would be
spared the dean’s axe.
I paused on the landing to observe the two young men. One wadded up his cup and made a
basket in a barrel from twenty feet. My article had studied the distribution of empty plastic cups
when the library, after intense debate, finally relented and installed vending machines. Some
students carried the cups into the stacks as had been feared, but I found no damage to the books.
This might have been because students seldom used the books.
Why had we settled for plastic? If we couldn’t rid ourselves of single-use cups, then we
ought at least to have insisted on paper. Another article began shaping itself as I reached the
second floor. This time, I’d survey hundreds of libraries. “Why did we accept plastic in the first


place?” I cried out, startling an Asian man, who looked up anxiously from his laptop. We were
near the holidays, a lonely time for foreign students. Also for me, the friendless librarian with his
mountain of school debt. “Sorry,” I said.
When I reached the third floor, I instinctively glanced left and right, catching the ends of
shelves. Some librarians develop a sixth sense about shelf order, and this was my area, after all.
Without conscious effort, I spied a mistake in Shakespeare. From fifty feet away, I couldn’t read
the Cutter number, but I knew these acres of books like a cook knows what’s in the pantry. Short
books, books with blue bindings, slender books, oversized books, books so old and tattered they
should be boxed and moved into climate control. Without breaking a stride, I reached up to a top
shelf to move Love’s Labour’s Lost to the left of Much Ado About Nothing, and that’s when I
became a sexual predator.
Because at that instant, a young woman reached high from her traveling stool to shelve an
old Folger’s Macbeth. She wasn’t much more than five feet tall and it was all she could do to
reach the top. My sudden intrusion upset her balance—and also, allow me to point out, saved her
from hurting herself. As she fell into my arms, I slipped a hand under one of her thighs and
dropped to my knees. She looked up at me, her savior, with her pretty brown eyes, and I kissed
her.
Her name was Hope, it turned out. Probably Hope was attractive, but this hardly occurred
to me, because, for a nano-second, my protagonist was bold and dashing. He was Romeo. Hope, if
she had a part, was surely Juliet.
Was this to be my plotline? Unlikely lovers, colliding in the stacks?


Hope lay there hardly a second. She flashed those brown eyes. Then she wriggled like a cat
that doesn’t want to be held, regained her feet, and fell again. I teetered over into the broad aisle,
trying to suppress my laughter.
Hope did not laugh. She looked up at me with a mixture of revulsion and, no doubt about
it, fear. Fear?
She leapt up and ran into American Literature, and I didn’t like the image of myself
chasing after her, cornering her, trying to explain my behavior somewhere between Hamlin
Garland and Ernest Hemingway. Tomorrow, I’d give it a try. Stupid mistake, and I apologize.
Silly, spur of the moment, romantic thing. Oh yes: sorry I laughed.

“Millie’s in a coma now,” Dean Clarke said.
I nodded. The famous Millie Pace was my furtive, demented officemate. Today was
December 1st, and I hadn’t seen her since early November.
A week before Thanksgiving, in frigid weather, Security reported movement—maybe a
homeless person, even a dog—in the library after hours. Through several nights, they couldn’t
quite track that presence down, though they heard shuffling, doors closing and opening off the
stairwells, and once, wild, fire-filled eyes shining up into their flashlight beams.
Of course, it was Millie. The men chased the ghostly, whispering sound of her down into
the basement and across to the Annex where the old Dewey decimal books slowly became dust.
Millie huddled in a corner like some ragamuffin out of Dickens. The men guided her across
campus to their office, treating her with genial contempt. Shortly, Millie would begin her yearlong journey through hospitals and psych wards, then on to the cemetery.

Goodbye to All That

5

“So terribly sad,” the dean said, even though Millie’s demise helped her solve a budgeting
problem, and possibly spared one more librarian for one more semester. For an instant, I studied
Barbara Clarke. In her mid-forties, she had a young face that made her seem quite attractive when
she smiled—but she seldom smiled.
Dean Clarke was alone in the world, as faculty gossip had it, and arriving with the mission
to cut staff wouldn’t make her any friends. Her only hope was to gain the Chancellor’s
recommendation and move on to a better job elsewhere. Maybe Barbara would become the bad
guy in my novel, but not as in a superhero movie. She, too, was doomed, and my task as a novelist
would be to portray her gentler, more vulnerable side.
Maybe she owned a dog.
Barbara stared at me, but I couldn’t think what to say. “We all . . . reach the end,” I
managed, a pseudo-profound remark as much about Barbara as poor old Millie. A phony remark,
because I didn’t like either woman.
Now, Tom, I lectured myself. Be nice.
Barbara rearranged her face and stiffened her back into an almost soldierly posture. “I
talked to Finance, Tom. This business with the hospital, setting up nursing care—”
“Relatives?”
“None so far. Perhaps a brother in Florida. In any case, there’s some money from direct
deposit, but they don’t think it’s enough for all the years she worked. They have no record of her
cashing checks—”
“Paper checks?”
“Yes. Going back ten years or more. If you could go over there for me, Tom. Maybe
there’s a documents box, a desk drawer—”

Goodbye to All That

6

“I’ll get right on it, Barbara.” I’d called her Barbara for the first time ever, and surely that
was progress. Exuding public relations, she came around the desk and we shook hands. Trying not
to seem needy, I said, “Have a chance to look at my article?”
“Top of my list, Tom.” Barbara reached across her desk and plucked up The 21st Century
Librarian. “Congratulations.”

Three times Millie had been anointed Librarian of the Year. The Great Public holds certain
notions about librarians, mostly positive, partly bemused, but truly it pays little attention and
knows little. Hoping someone will notice, librarians give themselves awards.
Every year the school paper ran a story, nearly the same story, about how Millie had grown
up on an Ozarks hillfarm with eight barefooted siblings. She walked six miles to the one-room
school, where she read all the books in the library, including The Aeneid in Latin. With hard work
and grit, she took her B.A. in library studies, and then a job at our library, asking time off only to
earn her Master’s three years later.
Millie knew all there was to know about style sheets and could spot a plagiarized paper
from across the room. For years she taught LIS 101, the required one-hour course on the Library
of Congress classification system, proper citations, and databases that constituted our only claim
to pedagogy.
This fall, with Millie rapidly failing, 101 had devolved to me.
As the paper had it, Millie was a “kind soul” always ready to help a student find just the
right source. She had “a mischievous twinkle” in her eyes, but she was also a perfectionist with no
patience for the misplaced bracket or semi-colon. Millie gave over an entire lecture to the virtues
of sewn signatures and letterpress type vis-à-vis the barbarism of perfect binding and offset

Goodbye to All That

7

printing. Students, born as books were dying, tried not to look baffled, but she might as well have
lectured in Hindi.
Millie once berated me when, researching a reference question, I left half a dozen tomes
lying face down on my desk. Such careless practice destroyed bindings, she said.
Faculty assumed Millie would grow wiser with age. They wanted her to be wise. They
chuckled at her habit of placing a peach in the staff refrigerator on Mondays, and gnawing on it
through Fridays; or gathering up the crumbs of cookies and coffee cakes, saving them for lunch; or
pouring day’s end coffee into a thermos and taking it home. “Millie grew up poor,” people said.
The rest of us didn’t? You probably don’t end up a librarian if you came from money.
I watched the mound of trash grow on her desk—worn-out books in there, “wounded
books,” she called them, books that “needed a friend.” But also sack after white paper sack with
half-eaten sandwiches and Butterfinger wrappers and half-pint milk cartons. Against the far wall,
her hoard ascended at a perfect 45-degree angle. I complained to Dean Clarke’s predecessor, old
Robert Poole in his tweed coat, a little vacant-eyed in his dotage because his Meerschaum pipe
had been outlawed. “Oh, dear,” Bob said. “Don’t you think Millie will retire soon?”
Now, with Bob himself a-moldering in the grave, it was over. Millie might once have been
famous, but Librarian of the Year was decades behind her, and no one had visited her in years.
She’d owned a two-story brick house, built around 1920, quite fine in its day. But in her front yard
weeds poked up through the snow, and her porch spilled over with junk: broken furniture from
dumpsters, bags of aluminum cans, piles of frozen clothing. Dean Clarke had given me a key but
the front door stood ajar. Snow had drifted in for six feet or so in a long, graceful swale.
Oak floors, but the varnish had peeled away from the assault of water, dripping through the
ceiling from the ceiling above it from a gash in the roof. That’s when you know it’s too late, my

Goodbye to All That

8

dad used to say. You can neglect paint, never caulk the windows, let the front door fall off its
hinges, but when rain and snow finally harass their way through the roof your house is a goner.
That lovely oak floor had a crust on it, of plastic sacks, cardboard that mice had chewed
up, and maybe food, so that my shoes crunched crossing the room. I inspected a book cart, the
antique, hard maple kind. I could picture Millie Pace pushing it across campus after midnight,
carrying pure contraband: the fine, broken editions she meant to fix. Those old, brown books had
swollen into something akin to decayed flesh, and crusted over with a blue-green algae that
sparkled with frost.
There was a mildewed couch but otherwise no furniture. Empty cardboard boxes rose to
the ceiling in a back room. Water hadn’t reached the kitchen and it remained relatively clean, but
the refrigerator bulged with styrofoam containers of spoiled food. I tried the range with a wooden
match but the burners wouldn’t light. No gas, no electricity, and that had been the state of things
for a long time.
No one checked on Millie. We all were complicit in ignoring her, and I—along with my
cynical protagonist—gave off a shudder. There but for the grace of God, indeed.
I climbed two steps of the stairway, then jumped up and down, testing if it would sustain
my weight. Each riser glistened with mold, and my shoes slipped before gaining purchase.
If possible, upstairs was in even worse shape, but I found a bedroom where Millie had
slept before the cold drove her into the library’s stairwells. By the door: a bucket she’d used for a
toilet. But in the corner, perfectly dry, stood a walnut chifforobe where a few of Millie’s dresses—
all of them old, all faded into the same drabness—hung. The chifforobe was a beautiful piece, an
heirloom, maybe the most valuable thing her family had owned and all that remained of the Millie
Pace estate. It would be quite a chore to get it down those springy steps.

Goodbye to All That

9

In one drawer I found the metal box Dean Barbara Clarke hoped for.

The box held Millie’s birth certificate, her degrees in their blue folders, a first university
I.D, and even a letter, five years old, from a brother in Florida. The box also held her paychecks. I
expected the dean’s praise for diligent duty, and felt eager to help still more. I’d run down the
brother. I’d carry out that chifforobe.
Barbara counted the checks, over thirty of them, but didn’t speak. At last she looked up.
She didn’t smile, and her eyes were almost too complicated to describe. Pain, regret, reproach,
doubt, and wariness. Mostly wariness, and I knew something was up. My eyes dropped to The 21st
Century Librarian, in exactly the position I’d left it.
“Tom, thank you,” the dean said. “Such a difficult task. We all loved Millie. Millie was—”
“She certainly was,” I said.
“I’m so pleased I could call on you. Tom—”
Now I suspected what was about to happen, and I wouldn’t make it hard for her. “Go
ahead, Dean Clarke.”
Barbara brought her hands together with the fingerpoints touching, as if to say, here’s the
church, here’s the steeple. “While you were gone, Tom, I had . . . let’s call it an interview with
Hope Landers.”
“The page,” I said.
“I very much need to hear . . . your side of things.”
I pictured myself as the guy in the novel with his dead end job. I reached out to grab The
21st Century Librarian. What a stupid article, I thought, and dropped the journal into a waste
basket. “Guilty as charged.”

Goodbye to All That

10

Barbara’s eyes flared in indignation. “How do you know what Hope said?”
“Does it even matter? If you’re accused of harassment, of—of assault—”
“Tom!”
“It was a freak thing, an accident. I caught her as she fell, and then it was like I was
channeling some old movie—”
“No premeditation.”
“I know I must have hired her, but pages come and go so fast. I don’t remember her.”
“Then why did you kiss her? Just male . . . presumption?”
Throughout history, how many kisses were carefully planned? “I imagined I was . . .
Romeo.”
Not a flicker of sympathy in Barbara’s eyes. What if I bent over the desk and kissed her?
Kiss every woman on campus, call it a scientific experiment—oh, what an article that would
make! “Why does it matter, Barbara? You’ve got my head under your guillotine. Right where you
want it! What do you think it’s like, working in this doomed library, wondering if you’re the next
head to roll? I hate it! I hate you!”
“Oh, Tom, please.” Some color left her face. “Hope was pretty shook up, that’s all. She’s
only nineteen.”
“I’d apologize if it would do any good.”
“The correct moment will come, I’m sure.” Barbara laced her fingers again and shook her
head. “She cried and cried. It took me an hour to calm her, and I—she didn’t want me to, if you
can believe that, and I didn’t want to—but with a report like that, and the paperwork, I was forced
to call Human Resources.”

Goodbye to All That

11

Forced? I remembered those gentle folk, with their upbeat tones, their careful language and
averted eyes. The hoops I’d jumped though, a white male, even to be hired. My voice climbed an
octave; maybe I had a future as a hillbilly preacher. “Woe betide us! The end is near!”
“Tom, don’t go off the deep end on me. This is academia; you know how things are. I’m
sure there’ll be a committee, maybe you’ll need counseling, but . . . well, it’s not as though you’ve
been stalking Hope.” Barbara paused. “Have you?”
I threw up my hands and walked out. On my way, I knocked over a chair and slammed the
door. Probably unwise if I wanted to remain employed at the university.

I half-expected campus police to arrive and drag me off for a waterboarding session. It
would make a great scene in my novel. Even unsympathetic readers would scream it out: no, no,
this is going too far.
Twelve days remained in the semester. I gave a final in Millie’s course and spent two days
working up a website for Dad’s (and my) woodworking business. Then I tore into reading War
and Peace.
I packed books and clothes into my car, and carried my broken-down furniture to the
dumpster. By the time I turned in Millie’s grades, I had reduced my worldly goods to a TV, my
laptop, and two dinette chairs. I didn’t expect company but kept that second chair as a desk. I
sketched a three-legged stool, baseball bats, a cedar chest, and scanned each into my laptop.
Maybe I’d add a video of Dad leaning over his lathe. I wanted to get it across that we were
artisans, not assembly-line workers.

Goodbye to All That

12

I avoided the lounge and the staff avoided me, except for Cynthia Moore, who poked her
head into my office once or twice. “Mr. Short-Timer,” she said, smiling that sad smile of hers.
“Maybe you’re the lucky one.”
“Yeah.”
“If they want to get you, you don’t give them ammunition.”
“Oh—listen. I don’t belong here. I—” I looked up from bagging the old woman’s trash but
couldn’t hold Cynthia’s eyes. They were full of kindness. “We should have gone out,” I said.
A spike of anger crept into her voice. “I tried to encourage you.”
“Well, you know.” I laughed. “Getting involved with somebody at work—”
“Tom, where else are people going to meet?” She laughed, too. “And we don’t work
together anymore, right?”
I turned toward Millie’s garbage again. “I’ll call you,” I almost said, but couldn’t get the
words out.

At my apartment, someone had begun calling me. When I picked up the receiver, I heard
silence, then a click, every hour or so.
I shut down the landline, another day passed, and those calls resumed on my cell. Once or
twice I heard a sort of half-sob. “Hope?” I asked. “Hope, I’m sorry. You were, you were a—” I
couldn’t say, “You were a prop.” Just a prop in a momentary fantasy. A minor character in my
novel-in-the-sky.
Was it Hope?
Maybe it was Cynthia. Maybe, in a few weeks, I would call her.

Goodbye to All That

13

I dropped off my resignation to Dean Clarke. I’d have been gratified had she said, “Tom,
this is nonsense! Are you going to throw away a promising career over nothing at all?”
She said, “Sorry it had to come to this.” Maybe her face registered a faint regret, but
because of me she’d pretty much met her dead wood quota. In her face, too, I read moral
repugnance. Rationally, she might have acknowledged the thought to be ridiculous, but
emotionally she saw me as a sex offender. No doubt, Human Resources had been busy. Oh, the emails, the calls, the strategizing in case I sought legal help.
Barbara sighed. “You may have some trouble, Tom.”
“No doubt.”
“I can say you worked here. Give the dates. I don’t have to mention—”
“Thanks,” I said, trying not to sound ironic, but really it was as though I were someone
else, truly the protagonist of my own boring, nutty life. I was as nutty, as boring, as mortal, as poor
Millie Pace. As nutty and mortal as Dean Barbara Clarke and every form-loving, illiterate
bureaucrat in Human Resources. We’d all end up squatting over a bucket.

One piece of luck: my resignation coincided with the end of my lease, and my refunded
deposit made a good chunk of travel money. I finished packing the car, looked around once more
to imprint where I’d lived, to see if there was even one thing I’d miss, and headed downstairs.
Made no sense, but I felt a rush of freedom. Like I’d been let out of prison. I’d spend two weeks in
a cheap hotel before crashing in on my nutty, entirely mortal old dad. Maybe I could finish the
first draft of my novel.
I’d call it, The Predator.

Goodbye to All That

14

Then the strangest thing of all: just as I reached for the ignition, Hope Landers appeared by
the hood.
Those phone calls! She’d been stalking me!
Hope looked nice. She was dressed up, not for a date but professionally, as if for an
interview.
What else could I do? I rolled down the window. “Hope,” I said. “That’s a fine name. I’m
sorry, Hope, I—”
“Professor, you don’t have to leave. I don’t want you to.” She gave me a wide smile. No
sadness in it, like Cynthia Moore’s. Nothing but youth and hope, and I thought, Good Lord, she’s
the girl next door.
“We could talk,” she said. “Right now!”
We could talk, and have dinner, and make love on the carpet of my apartment without
furniture. What a mess! “I apologize, Hope.” For good measure, not entirely sure if it was a
compliment, I said, “You’re a very nice girl.”
Hope glanced over my pitiful worldly goods, packed to the ceiling in the back seat.
“Woman,” she murmured.
I started the engine and backed a little way into the parking lot. Hope looked sad.
“What you did to me,” she called out, and I thought, great line, I’ll use it in the novel. I
closed my eyes and saw country roads pushing out under the oaks, the hills galloping by. I
dropped the shifter into drive.
Hope clasped her hands as if to pray. “It was very sweet.”


