Jamaican oils were brewing and making love with my nose as I walked into the door. I
was greeted by scriptures and commands from the bible that she had written on index cards. The
cards were planted on the wooden door with Scotch tape.
BLOOD OF JESUS.
THOU SHALL NOT STEAL.
NO WEAPON FORMED AGAINST ME SHALL PROSPER.
The scriptures were aligned on the door in an effect to resemble stairs, as if walking up this
staircase of scriptures would help you get to heaven. The light was dim, but there were four
lamps and three windows in the room. The couch was still as white as it was when we bought it
because she never took the plastic off of it. I took off my shoes, because to my right lay a
mountain of them. My grandma had this thing about wearing your shoes inside of her home. She
felt like the shoes held spirits from the outside world. She didn’t want anyone dragging in the
evils of the world. Of course the rules hadn't changed in my one year of absence; I left to go to
the Air Force in search of a better life and myself. Or maybe I left because I already knew myself
and the military was just like me: cold, distant, and fearless. I excelled at my rank for those very
reasons.
Lisa was an overemotional psyche major. She said I hurt her feelings a lot. She always
had feelings about every damn thing. She always wanted to talk about those feelings. She was an
overflowing tub of feelings and like the linoleum floor I just couldn’t soak them all up. She told
me I wasn’t making myself vulnerable for her because I had trust issues. She told me I was
suffering from abandonment issues. She told me I didn’t open up to her enough. She told me I
was heartless.
One morning before I was set to go on vacation with my best friend, we decided to go for
a jog along the shore. The entire thirty minutes was filled with conversations between the waves
and the sand, seagulls, and thumping of our running shoes with the ground. We stopped to catch
our breath. The air was crisp and smelled of salt. The wind ran through her hair wrapping it
around her head. When the wind stopped, most of her curly strands fell and some stuck to her
brow. She wiped the hair and the sweat from her face. I flashed her a smile and she waved it
away by rolling her eyes.
“What is it Lisa?” I asked.
“You know what Judy, you should really start talking to your mother again,” she almost
begged with the suggestion.
My mother and I hadn’t spoken since I was five years old. She left me with my
grandmother, got married and had more kids. I was an accident that happened when she was
fourteen.
“I’d prefer if we didn’t talk about that,” I said as I began stretching.
“That’s the fucking thing, you never want to talk about anything. You’re a pinned up
bottle of tension and you’re driving me away.”
I shook my head and replied, “Look you knew all this from the beginning. So do what
you need to.”
“Wow. Fuck you,” was all she said and started crying.
My grandmother’s fascination with decorations and collecting shit she didn't need hadn’t
changed either. My grandma was stern. She had it her way in her house. The house that I helped
keep intact with money I would give to her, so that she could make ends meet, but I still had no
say on what could come in or go out of the house.
“Well look at this, it’s my baby. Come on in here Judy” my grandma wailed from across
the living room.
“I see things haven't changed. Including you” I replied. She was wearing her all too
familiar floral print mu mu that was thinning and almost see through. She had her hair pinned up
with lime green rollers and white house shoes covered her feet. She had lost some weight. I
wondered if she had been stressing. Or lonely.
“Sho' haven't. Come give me a hug,” she said as she opened up her arms. Loose skin
dangled as her arms rose up above her head exposing my height. She seemed to be shrinking.
She smiled so hard you could see her dimples. I walked over to hug her. The embrace was warm.
She had missed me. I guess I missed her too because I got butterflies when we touched. I didn't
miss the suffocation of the house though. She had so many things everywhere. On the eggshell
white walls there were ancient artifacts from both the 99 cent and thrift store. They sat on the
walls or in groups along the wall and in corners. While I was gone, I’m sure they listened to her
complaints and worries, never said anything back. They just collected dust. I guess her collection
was her companion. It seemed that the things she brought in, nailed, taped, or glued somewhere
that wasn't too cluttered, made her feel good about herself. They kept her company while I was
gone. The brass cinema faces and butterfly wings that were popular in the 90s were her favorite
decorations, or I had thought they were. When I was younger and before we moved to this house,
they were the first things she would dust and shine. Now they were a part of the collection. A
collection she did not care about. On the floor she created space for baskets. There were big
baskets. There were small baskets inside of the big baskets. And there were even smaller baskets
inside the small baskets. She watched my eyes as I scanned the room.
“I'm not letting any of my stuff go. So don't start. This is my stuff. I bought it,” she bolted
out. I looked up from my panning of the room and smiled. A fake smile that I knew would fill the
void of disappointment I had in this fire hazard she had created.
“Looks like you'll be making all the Easter baskets this year,” I joked.
“You're so mean to me,” she replied.
I laughed at her sensitivity. She was never too keen of my jokes. She lacked a sense of humor
which usually caused our arguments. I went back to retrieve my bags and took them to what use
to be my room. It now served as storage. Towers of books: health books, children books, cook
books, manuals, novels, bibles (why someone needs more than one bible never made sense to
me), and coloring books, just to name a few, stood behind the door and all along the wall to the
right. My grandma never graduated middle school, so her library always made me laugh. She
could read, but it was as bad as a third grader reading Catch-22.
One time she was reading her bible and there were so many pauses in between words that
I offered to read for her. She looked at me like I had just stolen something from her. I probably
did, her pride.
“Girl I don't need nobody reading to me. I ain't dumb. You might think I'm dumb, but I'm
not.”
I rolled my eyes, “No one said you were dumb, it’s just the way you're reading won't help
you comprehend the message.”
“What you know about the message? What you know about comprehendin’? I’ve been
taking you to church since you was three years old. You sho’ didn’t comprehend that being gay is
a sin! Shoot! You like girls; you know nothing about what the lord is giving me through my
reading.”
I rolled my eyes and met up with some friends to play some basketball.
Natasha was in love with me, for reasons I do not know. I even asked her once.
“Why are you in love with me?” She stared out the window of the car.
“To be honest Judy, I don't know. But I need you.” I wasn't surprised. Three weeks before
I had asked her why she was in love with me, she had come straight to my house from being out
of town. She came to see me before anyone else. I didn't even acknowledge her presence. She
left the house crying. I missed her when I realized she was gone.
As soon as I opened the door completely the books all came crashing down like
dominoes lined up one in front of the other
“What the hell are you doing in there?” my grandma yelled from the living room.
“I forgot to turn on my x-ray vision before opening the door.” I bolted back.
“Don't get smart.”
I blew a big sigh and threw my bags onto the bed that was held captive in the room full of
bullshit. Before turning to go back to the living room I looked around the room. There were
mountain bikes, about 30 boxes with God knows what in them, towels, papers, shoes, clothes,
and just crap that should either be given away or thrown away. I closed the door. I didn't bother
looking in her room.
“Where's grandpa?” I asked.
“Back at it,” She replied.
I shook my head. My grandfather was a binge crack head. He would go long periods without

touching the shit, then my grandma or this house or maybe both would set the man off. He would
choose the streets over the suffocation. Sometimes I understood his reasoning. My grandma
could be that plastic bag over your head. Although he was on drugs he was a great man. The
complete opposite of my grandma, even though they were the same astrological sign. One day he
showed me how much he love me. He said,” I know you like women Jude. And who the hell am
I to judge you, ya know? You ain’t ever gave me a hard time for being in and out of your life. I’m
sorry. I love you though.”
I always wondered how my grandparents lasted for so long. My grandma hated to admit
it, but she needed people. She tried substituting her need for people with the over consumption of
tangible items.
“So when are you going to get rid of this stuff?” I asked.
“When are you going to stop coming back and forth?” She replied.
“Maybe when you figure out that you don't need all this stuff. I hate all of this stuff.”
“Girl be quiet. My stuff ain’t bothering you no how. How's work?”
“Work is fine. NOT TOO MUCH STUFF is going on there.”
“You think you're so funny Judy.”
***
Nina use to want to talk all the time. She wanted to talk about spring, and whether
religion was some man made bullshit to keep people even more divided. She brought me soup
when I had the flu, and talked to me until I fell asleep. One day she wasn't so nice.
“Do you ever wonder what the point of living is?” She asked.
“It doesn't matter,” I replied.
Nina rolled her eyes. “Nothing ever matters to you.”

“You're right. So just shut up for once.”
Nina spat in my face.
***
A week had gone by and I had missed being away from the house already. The air was
always stale and stiff. Only Christian music could be played loudly. Only her soap operas could
be on the TV at 2 pm. Only she cooked in the kitchen. Only she sat on the couch without the
plastic. This was why I joined the Air Force. I had to get away from her. She hated me when I
told her I was leaving for the Air Force for the first time.
“Why didn’t you discuss this with me? Aren’t you supposed to talk with your family
first?”
“I’m grown.” I replied.
I think I made her cry. She knew she couldn’t rely on my grandfather’s presence. She needed me,
but instead of her admitting it. She cursed me out. STUPID BITCH. She told me I was taking the
mark of the beast. YOU’RE TAKING THE MARK AND GOING TO HELL FOR THIS. She
didn’t wish me well. I left her with her baskets and dust and stale air.
Since I was on winter leave I had to stay another two weeks with my grandmother. I was
going to try to make the best of it. Try to enjoy her.

I tried.
We went to the movies. I ordered popcorn and overpriced candy. The seats weren’t clean
enough. The movie was too loud. The movie was stupid and evil. Here I was trying to get her
away from the house, but anywhere we went was never good enough. She needed that house and
all the shit in it. I was starting to believe that they really did keep her feeling protected and at

ease.
***
Eden loved me too, but she was so sexual and free that it scared me. I never understood
showing love in a physical way.
“Park over there Judy.”
“No, I'm leaving.”
“I don't want you to.”
“Why not?”
“I want to spend time with you Judy.”
“No you don't. You just want to have sex.”
Eden looked hurt. She got out of the car and went inside her house. I sat in my car in the middle
of the street. My engine was quiet and so was my heartbeat, All I could hear were the blinkers.
The two arrows were pointing in opposite directions. The one pointing to the left seemed to be
telling me to leave and the other was pointing to the right in the direction that Eden had gone. I
put the car in reverse and parked. I walked up to her door and knocked several times. She opened
up the door and smiled.
***
It was time to go back to Colorado.
All of my things were packed. I was pulling my duffel bag down the hallway. I bumped
into a stand that had a crystal set on it. The crystal broke.
“All you do is fuck up my house.”
I looked up and bit my tongue.
“I'm so glad you're leaving. You don't need to come back for a while.”

I picked my duffel bag up and walked to the front door. I put my shoes on and turned to look at
my grandma once more before I left.
“I love you,” I said.


