The voice served as our alarm clock.
My dad knocked his head against the low berth, grunting “shit” over the hum of the fan.
“Sure, sure,” my dad mumbled to the voice from outside the boat. “What do you want?”
I was curled up on the uneven dinette bed, stiff after a rocky night. With no curtains, the
boat was hot and bright like a greenhouse. He walked through the heat of the cabin, pushing his
wire-framed glasses up his crooked nose. Looking unsteady with eyes half-closed, he moved the
direction of the fan, which altered the sound, a softer hum, and reached through the pink blinds.
With both hands he pulled the glass doors. The support bracket for the blinds fell, and my dad
kicked the blinds to the side.
“I didn’t know if anyone was on board,” the voice said. “Hope I didn’t wake you! Did I
wake you? I'm from H24.”
“You have the Viking,” my dad replied, messing with his shirt buttons. “Nice boat.” The
man tipped his brown Stetson and said, “That’s right.” The Viking Man reached down and pulled
the line to draw the boat closer to the dock and jumped on board. He was tall and wore a big
brown hat, like Indiana Jones. The glare from the sun outlined his body, like the stained-glass
angels I saw in church when my mom took me that one time. “Some storm we had, huh?” he
said. “We got down early this morning to see how she held up.” Indiana Jones took off his hat
and stepped into the shade. He had a clump of curly hair and stood well over six foot with a rich,
smooth face, perfect skin, and a tan. His eyes were washed in blue, topped with trimmed, thick
eyebrows. “I know it's late,” he said, “but I’m having a few people over to the boat later this
afternoon. Think you two can make it?”


My dad did not say anything. He just combed his thin brown hair to the side with his
fingers and gazed at his bare feet. He stepped back, almost stepping on me, not knowing I was at
his feet, the perfect spy. Little me, then, tugged on my daddy’s baggy shorts. Through clenched
teeth, I whispered intensely, “Dad, the circus, Dad. You promised the circus.” My dad repeated
his promise, and then the guy confirmed the circus left the Convention Center last weekend. My
dad claimed a billboard on the AC Expressway read ‘through this weekend,’ and that could be
true, the guy said. He could be wrong. But if we got the chance, “come all down to the boat.”
Indiana Jones spotted me and smiled. “I have a girl about your age. And just as pretty!”
“They . . . they must both come from good eggs,” my dad said.
“The storm . . . your boat hold up alright?” Indiana Jones asked.
My dad shrugged. Indiana Jones said he would inspect the damage. My dad and I looked
at each other as we heard him climb. We usually saw his family either arriving on Friday or
leaving on Sunday afternoon. A daughter with a perfect blonde ponytail and an older son. Say
hello or comment on the humidity or the green-head flies. Stepping aside, my dad, his face
lowered, had allowed Indiana Jones and family to pass: cart-full of rods and tackle and boating
stuff, going ba-dump, ba-dump, ba-dump, still, even now, along the pier. Water streaks revealed
the tires. My dad just packed a cooler held tight with one of those stretchy cords my brother
zapped me with and a gym bag stuffed with wrinkled clothes. We belonged to the same marina
in Atlantic City, but every marina has that one boat that everyone laughs about, a rusted radio
antenna reaching to heaven, a broken railing, a front hatch held open with a screwdriver.
Indiana shook the deck again with an enthusiastic leap. The bridge cover had ripped in
half. “A bridge cover’s easy enough to replace,” Indiana Jones said. “It’s flapping up there like a
white flag, having a jolly old time.” The word “easy” must have fallen hard on my dad. After the

divorce, nothing was easy.
“Listen, now, if this circus thing doesn’t pan out, don't be a stranger,” the man said,
calling back, his cologne lingering. “It’ll be a nice get-together for a rather nasty Saturday.”
My dad sat down and cleaned his glasses with the end of his white shirt. He picked up the
pink blinds and told me he felt a little dizzy. He had something called vertigo, and it had to do
with crystals in the inner ear. But the feeling eventually subsided. Scratching at the dried glue, he
examined the screws. They were too small for the holes. “Everything’s falling apart, Mary
Rose,” he told me. “Maybe I can win me some repair money at the casinos.”
“Are you sure you’re okay,” I asked. “I can get the medicine.”
“I’m okay for now,” he said, holding my hand. “Just keep the bottle with you, okay?”
If my mom knew how frequently the episodes swept over him, with us in the car and on
the boat, I’m not sure she would have allowed us to visit, and so we kept it quiet, and we didn’t
even tell Stu, my brother, because that was just as bad as telling my mom.

My dad used his boat as a “weekend bachelor pad.” That was what he called it. After the
divorce, he had a one bedroom apartment in Pennsylvania close to work. He took us every other
weekend, and when it was warm, the weekends meant the boat. On kid-free weekends, the boat
was meant as a place to “entertain my lady friends,” or his place to be ‘Man, alone’ as my
brother said, but over time the smell of the toilet, the mildew on the ratty rugs, and the plates
stacked in the sink were not, according to my brother, “especially conducive to romance,”
especially in that summer heat. My brother loved to use big words, especially to be cruel. But my
dad was never good alone. The head, what my dad called the toilet, didn’t work for #2, so I had
to use a port-a-potty on the deck at night and dump my business elsewhere. It didn’t work for #1

either, and so the smell got bad. I just squatted on the deck in a bucket. It was also my job to run
with buckets for hot water. My brother Stuart hated the weekends, but I loved the time because
my dad was always more comfortable with girls. I was the last in his life. When he was young,
his mom and his sister died. My mom left before he was old, at thirty. There was just me and my
messy blonde hair and my juice-stained lips. My mother imagined a rainbow of ways we could
have died with our dad on the boat, especially when he saved enough cash to splash in the tanks
and risk Townsend Inlet and go out close to shore when the ocean or the Barnegat Bay wasn’t
rough. When Stuart wasn’t there my dad didn’t take the boat out, so I think he was sore that
weekend because he was happiest on his fly bridge with the wind in his hair, alone in the sky and
in the wind, like flying. I wasn’t old enough to handle the ropes or act as first mate. And oh, how
my mom worried on those weekends, but I just tolerated the mildew.
Indiana Jones was correct. The circus left town. Posters, lots of posters, faded
advertisements . . . that was all that was left. I was upset, but I didn’t want to look too upset,
because my dad was really upset about disappointing me. How could I hurt him more? That was
like my father, though, leaping before looking, getting us so worked up for the excitement,
without having all the facts, and then have it fizzle like a dud firework. He tore off a poster.
Before ripping it, he stopped and gave it to me . . . like some souvenir. He said something like,
“I’m sorry baby doll.”
It was no big deal, right? Just smelly elephants and mounds of fly-crap and lameass
clowns. My dad was talking but I wasn’t listening because angels on trapezes lifted me off the
bench into the heavens. A staple from the poster pricked my finger. No way could it be the
greatest show on earth!
“We should have come last week,” he said with those blue eyes like mine. His eyes were

South of Providence

5

soft and liquid like jelly fish. He stayed thin his whole life, except for that belly that rose and fell
like the tides.
Sucking on my wound, I reminded him it wasn’t his weekend with us.

So on that Saturday afternoon he took me to the Golden Nugget, and he played the slots
while I sat with my picture books and early readers on a chair just outside the gaming area. He
would order a drink, turn to me, occasionally, flash a thumbs up, and I would return the thumb. I
don’t know how long he played. I asked him if he won enough for the child support. “Stuart
wanted me to ask you about that,” I said. He played with my hair, rough-like, like my mom
drying my hair after a bath, and he said he would talk to my mom about all that. Outside, the
gaming finished, he said he needed to sit, and so we sat on a bench on the boardwalk facing a
gray sea for a long time. A dog ran after a few gulls. A black pipe ran along the sand with the
sign:
Danger
Keep Out
Submerged Objects
The wind pressed down the dune reeds. The ocean was rough, I recall, chomping at the
sand. The sea that weekend had carved a ledge in the sand for us to sit. We stared at the sea.
Sometimes I felt my dad had all these daytime fantasies, like the story he always told of the
Donkey Man, a man from his childhood who gave kids donkey rides at the shore. I asked why he
wanted the Donkey Man to take him away when he was young. “I didn’t have such a good
childhood,” he said. “Not like yours.”
“Are you still feeling dizzy?’ I asked.
“Not so bad now.”

South of Providence

6

While walking to the beach, I could see he was really down, and then he glanced up at a
street sign: Providence. Did he whisper the name? Did he repeat the name more than once? On
the beach a strange old man combed the sand with a metal detector, his huge black lab playing
with a dead gull. The old man wore huge headphones. I looked hard at that old guy, bald with a
charcoal beard, wasting his time listening for treasure. It was a strange hobby, of course, but
maybe it was just something to avoid thinking about things.
With his shoes off, my dad noticed a boat across the horizon. “Mary Rose, that looks like
my dad’s old wooden boat,” he told me. “It was called Katrina, after my mom.” He glanced at
his wrist, but he forgot the watch on the boat. I waited for this usual "half past a freckle" line but
this was an unusual moment. There was no time for humor. The lab brought the dead gull to the
old man, who kicked it to the side.
The tide washed over our feet, the water cold. My dad jingled coins in his pocket, saying
those strange things that will stay with me forever: “Mary Rose, I don’t think your mother ever
loved me. I was just . . . I don’t know. But I . . . loved her . . . I, well, I love her still. Someday
you’ll know that too.”
His eyes were moist. He gave me the coins to make wishes. The coins made an imprint
on my hand, so tight I held them. With each coin tossed into the sea, I wished for my mother to
love my father, and that the weight of love would force us all back to earth from those trips
around the stars, searching the universe for what was always the closest.
The old man pulled his headphones around his neck. “You look like you jus’ lost big,”
the old man said, leaning against the metal detector.
My dad nodded. “That’s the truth. I lost big all right.” Then, I chucked the last nickel into
the Atlantic – unaware you can’t wish to change someone else’s heart.

South of Providence

7

“Why don’t ‘cha jus’ toss ‘em on the beach fer me?” the old man asked.
My dad didn’t acknowledge the old man. Instead, my dad found an empty green beer
bottle underneath the boardwalk, filled the empty beer bottle with sand and water, thumbplugged the top, and rocked this preserved world back and forth. The ship in the bottle was the
only thing missing. We sat on the sand. The treasure hunting old man moved on, and then
reached down for something. He stuffed the thing into his pocket. We did not move for a long,
long, long time.
“We could go to that party, Mary Rose,” he said. “At least you can meet that other girl.
You could have a friend. I had a friend long time ago while I was kid down here. His name was
Johnnie.”
“What's his name?” I asked. “The man with the Viking? He looks like Indiana Jones.”
“You know, I couldn't tell you. He's just the Viking guy.”
“Well then, we’ll just call him Indiana Jones.”

The last boat on H pier was the Viking. On the back deck with an electric grill, Indiana
Jones was waving a huge blackened hot dog. On the pier the girl wore a sundress and fished off
the pier all by herself. “It's a scene from Norman Rockwell,” my dad said. (It may have been the
only painter he knew. We had Rockwell prints in our bathroom.) I just wore capris and a
wrinkled green t-shirt. My dad seemed nervous. I once overheard in the marina clubhouse an
awful joke he told that women should all be required to have C-sections, because “damn it
wasn’t like screwing the Grand Canyon if they didn’t.” I didn’t understand until my brother
explained. My brother was mad about that. He acted like my dad, except when he teased me.
“What kind of boat you got?” some guy asked my dad.

South of Providence

8

“It’s a Concorde.”
“Ah. I’ve never heard of that.”
“It’s an old model,” my dad replied.
I worried about him as he disappeared into the boat. I waited outside with the girl as other
kids came out too because it wasn’t much fun for kids when parents were drinking and carrying
on and yapping about fish and boats and other such adult things.
“You do any fishing?” a boy asked me.
“No,” I said.
“Well, my dad’s entering the tuna tournament.”
I didn’t know about any tournament.
“Aren’t you from around here?”
“I’m sometimes here with my dad.”
“Which one is his?”
I pointed down the pier to H2.
“That boat?’ he said. “That boat is crap."
The boys giggled. I just lowered my head. Eventually the boys left, but I wanted them to
stay so I could push them into the bay and have the sharks eat them. I had seen the girl with the
father of Indiana Jones on a small rowboat many times before, fishing. “Is your grandpa here?” I
asked her.
“He said he was tired,” the little girl replied. “He told me he doesn’t really like these
people. He left with my brother ‘for some peace.’ That’s what he said anyway.”
“What’s your name?’ I asked.
“Jillian.”

South of Providence

9

“I’m Mary Rose.”
I was lucky to have two names, she said. She was right.
I was curious what was in the blue slop bucket. Jillian, opening up a bucket, pulled out a
huge shrimp and dangling it in front of me, baited the hook. My dad magically appeared behind
me, drinking a beer with Jillian tossing the line into the water. Something must have happened in
the ten minutes he was inside that boat because his face was different. I never did ask him what
happened, but my dad’s face showed every emotion he felt.
“Did you ever hear the story about the Donkey Man?” my dad asked Jillian.
The girl shook her head. I probably just rolled my eyes.
“He was an old man who lived around here, and he gave donkey rides to kids like you,”
he said in a sense of wonder and reverence. “But some say he was a pirate who lived on the
moon, and he kidnapped kids who were unhappy. I met the Donkey Man when I was . . . younger
than you girls. Right here in AC.”
“Well, that’s just a silly story,” Jillian said. “Anyway, that old donkey man wouldn’t
want me. I’m happy here.”
“You’re lucky then.”
“Living on the moon doesn’t seem so lucky either,” Jillian said giggling.
As she fished in silence, my dad and I hung our legs over the pier. A hand painted sign,
nailed on splintered wood, in splattered white paint read: No Wake! He placed his beer next to a
piling and forgot the beer existed. A splinter bothered my butt — or tar, but Jillian in that pink
outfit seemed comfortable on the edge of the dock, staring into the blue heavens, watching the
loud gulls fight for command of the ash-colored pilings. I wished my dad could have been more
like them, fighting for his peace. He would step aside, move away, vanish. At least the fly bridge

South of Providence

10

was his place, like a bird in his perch, like the word I learned in school: a pedestal. My mom said
it was dangerous up there. Once he took the wake of a tugboat the wrong way and the boat rolled
under to the left. She, holding me on the front deck, almost fell into the Chesapeake. My mom
yelled that he did it on purpose! That he did it on purpose! Did it on purpose? That he wanted us
to dump into the water! She had no facts, and yet her voice was nothing but fact.
Just as Jillian said she usually liked fishing for schoolie bass, her line pulled. A strong
pull; with a solid right foot, she planted herself. My dad jumped up and placed his arms around
her, helping to pull on the rod. My dad never taught me how to fish. “That’s great!” he said.
“Keep going, keep going!”
His shouts acted as an alarm. The Viking party hurried over. Indiana Jones asked his
daughter, “What’s going on dear?” My dad was still reeling, his glasses slipping off his nose,
pulling on the line, feeling the line drag, his fingers mixing with his new girl. Then he brought
this thing out of the dark water. Just like that. Out from the deep came this thing. It dangled
above the water. The biggest fish she ever caught, the little girl said: heavy and dark brown with
a greenish color, it squirmed and wrestled and swished. I recall hating that fish, and I didn’t want
to hear her brag.
A man laughed. He stood next to my dad. “Go ahead! Do something with it!”
“Like what?” my dad asked.
“Get it off the line,” was the suggestion. “It’s not Jaws.” Everyone was laughing. “And
after you deal with the fish, perhaps you can tell another joke, like the one you said about how
watermelon is an aphrodisiac.” My dad’s hands were shaking. His heart must have been racing.
He seemed unsteady. He bit his lower lip. He tried to grab the fish with his small hands, but the
fish kept wriggling away. “I just never learned to fish! All right!” he said. “What’s so funny

South of Providence

11

about that?” Indiana Jones told him it was all right. My dad’s glasses slipped off, and Indiana
Jones picked them up for him. “It’s nothing to be embarrassed about,” he said. The words
seemed genuine, but every fight was a fight he lost. Stepping forward, grabbing the fish, taking
out the hook, and throwing the fish back into the calm, dark water, as easy as a rich dude tipping
the bellhop, Indiana Jones finished the fish scene and wiped his hands.
“Daddy, I wanted to keep that fish,” Jillian said. “It was huge.”
“Another time, my love.”
“What type of fish was that Daddy?”
“A weakfish, but it was too small.”
“That fish wasn’t weak at all, Daddy!” Everyone laughed.
My dad said on the way back that his vertigo seemed to be acting up. So I led him back to
the boat, to our our heaven and our mildew, and I gave him his medicine, and he collapsed on the
floor in the galley. I sat and placed his head on my lap. It was hot, so I used water and paper
towels to cool his face. He had taught me how to roll his head to the side, to move the crystals. I
wondered why crystals would be in his ear. I pictured pieces of rock candy, like he used to buy
for me at the Chestnut Neck store on the Mullica River. In a little while he was fine, having
fallen asleep. I just played with his hair, noticing not a single gray hair.

Was I lucky for having two names? Perhaps it indicated the two lives I lived: my dad
always called me Mary Rose with two distinct syllables with a breath of God in between. My
mother always bleeded the two as one: MaryRose, as in a rush.
It has been many years since that weekend. Now that I can drive, I revisit that spot as if
he's buried there. When I think of him on that beach, looking up at the sky, staring across the

South of Providence

12

Atlantic, I see him in that bottle, riding the swells, preserved now in story. I was too young to
save him. But he didn’t really have anyone else except that one hokey story about The Donkey
Man that kept the running lights aglow in the dark channels. I was old enough, then, not to
believe in Santa Claus or the Tooth Fairy, but it saddened me that he still wanted to cross into
that other world of make-believe.
I’ve always wanted to invent a dream recorder: to watch dreams and memories and
nightmares: electrodes attached to heads to record the fantasies that entertain and frighten.
Perhaps it could help us sort out our issues, if dreams really work that way. We identify with
stories and movies, but they’re not our movies and stories. Life gets boring, I guess, and so we
charm ourselves with stories, like when I was reprimanded in school for daydreaming and not
being able to sit still in my seat for six hours. Adults forget what it’s like to want to move and
work and ride the swells.
My brother told me, later, that there were many happy times on the boat that I vaguely
recall. Dropping anchor at Beezy Cove. Rowing the family ashore in the blue twilight for a
campfire. Jumping half crazed from the black-rimmed flybridge. Playing 500 Rummy in the
evenings. Lapping water lulling us to pleasant dreams as we slept on the dinette sleeper. Water as
calm as lullabies. “Mom must have grown tired of being first mate, boatswain, stewart, first chef,
cabin boy, and swabbie,” my brother said.
Why couldn’t he find another woman? Why couldn’t just having me be good enough?
It was soon after that weekend on the boat that my dad drove off the side of the road and
died. Afterwards, my brother once told me our father thought of committing suicide. ‘Sometimes
it gets so lonely,” my brother said, paraphrasing our dad, “that you just don’t want to live
anymore. But he didn’t do it on purpose. It was an accident. He was tired.” My brother also

South of Providence

13

spoke as fact. But the two: the words and the deed are tied as one, and I can’t untie them. He
didn’t know about the vertigo. My mom said it was a good thing we weren’t with him. “You
think he got the vertigo?” I asked. He said he didn’t know. “Could have lead to the accident,” he
said. I saw what it did to him: so dizzy like he was stoned drunk but sober, in knowing there was
nothing he could do but wait to balance himself. It eventually subsided, especially with the meds.
I wrote this all down in that diary my mom gave me for Christmas, an unusual gift because she
had to recognize my budding interest in writing. During one of my brother’s fights with my
father, probably about the missing money for child support, my brother said the meanest thing
that anyone could ever say, but he was only fifteen, and fifteen year olds tending the ropes as a
child referee in an adult tug-of-war say many mean things. He said, “Would anyone even notice
if you died?”
The answer, now, is yes. Yes, yes very much.


