When the novel virus emerged on the other side of the world, no
one was thinking about what we’d have to do to wage war on the
invisible killer. It still was so far away and non-disruptive of
our convenient, material-driven lives. No one realized that
death was about to knock at our doors, and even if it didn’t
take many of us, it would attempt to transform us all.
We blinked and our city was a deserted hub of fear. Told to
stay in our homes and distance ourselves from others until the
authorities said the coast was clear, no one could predict when
we would roam freely again.
We could wear masks to protect ourselves from infection,
but there was no protection against the great enemy that living
in isolation unleashes: ourselves.


The early days of the lockdown were awful. Anxiety crept up on
me at every turn. The media only reported the rising mortality
count and stories circulated about the virus hanging in the air
just waiting for us to inhale. Terror overtook my perceptions of
the world. Though the media fed me this fear, the media was all
the connection I had to anything anymore. I lived alone.
If I didn’t pay attention to the news, I felt listless. I
would lie on my rug looking at the ceiling hoping something
would happen to move my mind away. Loneliness and boredom scared
me more than death. I had a void inside me and I was afraid of
finding out how big it was.
Time was stretched out so far that one day it felt much too
large to fill up with only me.
“Every hour of every day has been stressful,” I tweeted.
That tweet went viral and got four thousand likes.
Everyone was feeling it. We were alone together. Coworkers
joked on video meetings about days blurring together and
drinking their last four bottles of tequila. My friends on
social media reminded others repeatedly about the importance of
mental health.
I was losing track of what my regular schedule used to look
like. I forgot what made me get up every morning. Or maybe there
never had been a reason at all.

After about fifteen days straight of staying indoors, I felt
like a deviant when I chose to venture outside for a walk. I
found myself meandering through a park where there was a two
hundred year old cemetery. The headstones of those completely
forgotten were themselves fading into nothing, covered in weeds,
and many were nothing more than blank flat rocks slanting in the
afternoon sun. I stood in front of one that still had legible
engravings. It said:

GO TOWARD THE LIGHT

Something moved in the overgrown foliage as I absorbed the
moment and the meaning of the message. A regal golden retriever
emerged from behind the headstone. It wore one of those service
animal vests. It came out with vines and thorns stuck to its fur

as if it had crawled through oppressive thickets to get to me.
Its owner was nowhere to be seen.
A tail wagged.
A pink tongue licked its jowls as I took a step closer.
Kind eyes met mine with a slight downward bow of the head.
It couldn’t see my smile through the mask I was wearing, so
I made reassuring sounds of greeting. The tail wagged with more
vigor. When I walked past it, it followed me through the
cemetery to the sidewalk, off the curb and across the street,
keeping six feet or so of distance between us. It followed me
around three more corners and all the way to my apartment
building. I did nothing to stop it.
Before I went inside, under the front awning, I knelt down
in front of this dog. I was afraid to touch it at first,
thinking that viruses can attach to fur. As I allowed myself the
pleasure of patting its floppy, soft ear, I fell into the novel
idea that I could allow myself some happiness by letting go a
little of my fear.
It rubbed its muzzle into my shoulder affectionately. I
gave it a hug. And that was it. It was love.

I felt a tag on a collar under the fur and pulled it around
to look at it in the sunlight. “Moksha” was the only word
inscribed on the metal there.
“Is your name Moksha?”
The dog lifted its haunches and moved one inch closer to me
on the pavement, tail wagging furiously.
“Do you want to be ​my​ dog?”
She barked once happily, panting with a pink tongue hanging
out.
I looked around one last time, knowing that this dog
couldn’t be ownerless. Was that ​possible​? I stood up and
adjusted my jacket, as dignified as a person could be who was
about to steal a dog.
“Let’s go home, Moksha.”

#

As soon as she was in the door, Moksha found the center of
my studio one-room apartment and sat in it. With her tongue
dangling in the air, she looked as if she was smiling.
She was steady and sure, when I was anxious and vulnerable.
I opened the fridge to find a snack that could satiate me and

6 - The Guide Dog

get me through the next few minutes. Moksha appeared between my
outreached hand and some day-old takeout macaroni and cheese.
Her nose moved to intercept and thwart my attempts to grab it.
“What are you doing?” I said to her.
She pushed the door closed with a paw.
I stopped everything. A shiver rippled over my neck and
back. My focus sprung back to the present moment and I felt
relieved, though stunned.
“You’re right, you know? I really shouldn’t be eating.”

#

The neighbor downstairs was spotted on day thirty-two of
the pandemic. I was sitting at my kitchen bar working on my
laptop. Moksha held my hand in her gentle jaws and guided me to
the window. I rubbed her head with my palm. “You see something
out there?”
Below our window on the second floor, inside a room of
golden light, I could see a man inside his apartment meditating.
He had pillows around him and his hair was in a knot on top of
his head. His hands faced upward and open. So serene.
Moksha eagerly eyed me.

7 - The Guide Dog

I thought of my coworkers who had recommended meditation
apps on our company slack. They raved about them. Did I need
one? I opened my phone’s app store to find one with at least
four stars. Moksha whined softly. The urge toward consumerism
and mainstream convenience wouldn’t stop, even when I had been
pointed on the road to non-attachment.
I put the phone down.
Cross-legged on my bed, I took a deep breath. The internal
silence and the lack of stimulation was foreign. At first I felt
a slight sense of panic, but I resisted the pull to
distractions. And my journey into bliss began, if just for a
fleeting few moments.

#

“What have you been doing that gives you comfort?” my
friend asked me on the phone.
“What were you doing ​before​ for comfort?” I asked back.
We changed the subject, but after the call it lingered with
me as I sipped my coffee and looked out the window again. Maybe
it was the comfort I was adding to my life that had been the
problem ​all along.
​

8 - The Guide Dog

#

Out for a walk, on day fifty-eight, we neared one of those Free
Little Libraries - weather-proof boxes that house used book
exchanges - in someone’s front yard on the corner of Belmont and
Eighteenth Street, and Moksha took a sharp turn directly toward
it.
“What - what are you up to, girl?”
Moksha huffed. We were right in front of the little box.
“Why are we here?”
Between the novels and political non-fiction, my eye was
caught on a paperback with a white cover and large letters of a
title: ​Journey to Bliss​. I pulled the little glass door open and
took the book out. I flipped to the first page, where it said:

When you let go, you realize you never had the things
you were grabbing in the first place.

I got the book home and read the first chapter entitled
Non-attachment is Freedom.
​ It was beautiful. I could see where I
was going wrong, expecting and feeling entitled to things, and

9 - The Guide Dog

placing value on the material when I would have been happier
placing it on the immaterial.
Being trapped inside didn’t seem so bad for the first time.
In fact, it didn’t seem bad at all. I had only taken it for
granted my whole life that I was able to be outside my house. I
had taken for granted my freedom. But attachment to worldly
things was the opposite of freedom, and I was beginning to see
that with my inner eye. I had never been truly free.
A feeling of glowing overcame me. From then on, I was
meditating for hours each day and the world was beautiful.

#

When I ate, Moksha took my spoon away in her mouth after three
bites. Every meal. When I used my phone, she nudged it away
after a few minutes. She was guarding me against indulgence.
Each time, my mind would come back to center and take heed of
presentness and gratitude.

#

10 - The Guide Dog

After weeks of meditation, I felt the light. It was
indescribable. I no longer have it, but certain memories of
bliss will never leave me. I could more than face each passing
moment in lockdown; I cherished the present and stayed with it
to feel its fluidity.

#

One morning, six months into the pandemic, I awoke to the sound
of Moksha whimpering a little and looking outside. I opened the
curtains and a black dog in another, adjacent apartment was
revealed. It was pacing, scratching at the window, and its tail
was low. We couldn’t look away. What if it had been alone in
there for days without food?
I went downstairs in a quest to find the apartment where
that dog lived. I put my ear to a door and heard claws
scratching on a wooden floor and high-pitched whining. I put my
hand on the doorknob. I looked beside me and Moksha was there
with droopy, concerned eyes.
“I have to rescue him if he’s in trouble,” I said. Some
trace of panic was back in me.

11 - The Guide Dog

Moksha walked away with diminished vigor in her tail and
disappeared around the corner.
The door was unlocked, so I pushed it open. Inside was
another studio apartment, identical to mine, but containing a
stench of a dog that had been relieving itself for a long time.
A blanket was folded in a corner with hair all over it, and the
dog was curled up on it. It perked up when I entered.
I tried beckoning the dog to me, to leave that place. “Come
on sweety,” I said, tapping the tops of my thighs to encourage
the dog. It wouldn’t budge. “Come on!”
The dog put its head back down and exhaled as dogs often
sigh. It was desperate, trapped, weary, purposeless, yet it
chose to stay. There was nothing I could do to get that dog out
of there.
After trying for half an hour, I closed the door quietly
and came back to my apartment, where Moksha was waiting. She
appeared a bit fizzled out. A notification lit up my phone. It
told me that the pandemic was over; we didn’t have to wear masks
anymore and we were free to do as we pleased.

#

12 - The Guide Dog

The mayor opened our city up after months and months of killing
it to kill the virus. Like everyone else, I went outside.
Moksha and I glided with mindful, fully-present steps down
the busy street. People all around were happy, with the ​other
kind of happiness. One of my favorite cafes was packed with
patio patrons on that sunny afternoon. I thought of the
delicious croissants that they served.
I stopped.
A deep breath was expelled from Moksha’s nose, and it was a
sound of deflation.
“I’ll just be a minute, Moksha,” I said, wrapping the leash
around a sign pole. I still remember the look in her eye. It was
a look of fading and losing something. She had begun distancing.
I went into the cafe to get the croissant, and when I
returned she was gone. I never saw her again. And, most sadly, I
never even looked for her.

The End


