“Everything dies, Joseph,” was the last thing that Dad ever said to him. “Nothing lasts
forever in any kind of permanent form. Everything breaks down and gets rearranged, over, and
over again. The energy that was in Ollie isn’t gone, just dispersed” he made an exploding
gesture with his hands and trickled his fingers down like rain, “to become part of everything.”
Joseph thought about this for a minute. “So,” he said, “Ollie isn’t in Heaven?”
Dad licked his thumb and wiped the crusty tear trails from Joseph’s cheeks. “In way he
is. In a very real sense, Heaven is all around us at every moment.” He put this hand over the
little boy’s heart. “Even inside you. And when you think about Ollie and remember all the good
times you had together, he’ll be there, too.”
The boy closed his eyes and images of the events of that day flashed through his mind.
“Ollie, how did you get out?” he had shouted out the school bus window as the dog ran toward
them from across the street. He felt the thump from below, saw the heap of brown fur on the
road behind them, heard the bus driver cry “oh my god.” They had walked him to his front door
after that, animal control came, and just like that, Ollie was gone. He had cried for hours, but
now his tears were dry, and he was left with only question. So many questions, and no words to
express them.
Finally, he managed to say, “Dad?”
“Yes, Joseph?”
“Are you going to die?”

“Yes, son. Someday we all will.”
“Mom, too?”
“Everybody, son.”
“Even me?”
“Yes, son. But not for a long, long time.”
Dad wasn’t sad or afraid as he told him these things and that was enough. Joseph
accepted this explanation and closed his eyes. After pulling the blankets over him and kissing
him on the forehead, Dad turned off the light.
Mom met him on the other side of the door and Joseph squeezed his eyes tighter as he
listened to their argument fade down the hallway and into the kitchen.
“Christ, Troy. That’s what you tell him? For God’s sake, why couldn’t you just say
Ollie’s in Heaven or something. No, you put him to bed with Everybody’s Going to Die.”
Mom brought up Santa Claus and Joseph fought the temptation to get out of bed and
remind her that it was Aunt Lisa, not Dad, that had broken the news about that to him last
Christmas.
“I’m not going to lie to my kid, Amy.”
The discussion continued from the kitchen where it heated up, quickly turning to the
topic of money like it always did.
Joseph fell asleep to Mom’s angry voice and awakened to her screams about an hour
before sunrise when the police told her that Dad had been t-boned by a drunk driver on his way
to work. His energy had been dispersed.
“Joseph?”

He opened his eyes to see his mother’s bare feet and unshaven legs, the hem of her
nightgown coming unstitched in places. The nightgown had gone unwashed for nearly two
weeks. Aunt Lisa had stayed with them for a month after the funeral, until Mom didn’t cry
herself to sleep at night. Until she even laughed a few times. Until all the legal stuff was taken
care of and all the wine was gone. When she left, there was no one around anymore to remind
Mom to get out of bed, to take a shower, to eat.
Joseph peeled his cheek from the linoleum and crawled out. Mom was already seated
with a glass of orange juice and half a bottle of vodka. Rubbing his eyes, he made his way from
the pantry to the sink to the fridge, and after situating himself across from her, assembled his
breakfast. There was just enough milk left to get his cereal wet, but not enough for it to float.
"There's no more milk," Joseph said.
Mom twisted the ring on her finger absently. "No more milk," she said in a dry, shallow
voice.
Joseph crunched a few bites, chasing away the heavy silence that was permeated by the
remnants of Dad’s ever-dissipating energy. Mom lifted her eyes, once again becoming aware of
his presence.
“Did you sleep under the table last night?” she asked.
“No, Momma,” he said with his mouth full, spitting crumbs back into his bowl and
everywhere else, “I fell asleep with you on the couch. Watching TV.”
“Then what were you doing under the table?”
He thought about it for a moment but no clear memory manifested. How exactly did he
end up under the table?
“I don’t know,” he said at last.

“Did you have a bad dream?” she asked.
Joseph thought about it, his mind swirling with colorful abstractions.
"No," he said. "I can't remember my dream. But it wasn't bad."
Mom looked as though she was about to say something else, but only a wordless sigh
escaped her. She took a long, deep drink from her glass and went back to studying her ring.
Joseph finished his breakfast and returned the bowl to its place in the sink.
He approached his mother and put his arms as far around her middle as he could reach,
nestling his head under her arm. He tried synchronized his breathing with hers as the rhythm of
her heartbeat pulsated through him. He longed for her to hug him back, but she didn't. Instead
she took in a long, sharp breath, and released it in a series of hiccupping sobs. He let go of her
and went to the back yard. The neighbor's cat was there, creeping around the swing set that Dad
had built for him. He hopped onto the swing and the cat darted across the yard and up the tree to
a branch directly above Ollie's vacant doghouse. Joseph could see the ghost of his late pet
scratching at the tree and barking at the cat as had always been their routine.
He pulled the chains of the swing and kicked his legs, building momentum until he was
swinging high enough to see over the fence. With Ollie's ghost barks echoing through his head
like music, he closed his eyes and pretended to fly, until one of the chains broke and he didn't
have to pretend.
He soared through the air for one glorious moment before gravity brought him back down
with terrible force. Everything went white at first, and then effervesced into a kaleidoscope of
sound and color before the cloudless blue sky emerged and everything was calm. A single line
was being drawn down the middle of it by a tiny airplane, like God unzipping the sky. Amber
light slipped through the newly formed crack he reached up to touch it. It was silk on his

fingertips and he pushed his thumb into the opening and pealed back the firmament. The amber
flowed out like blood from a deep wound and quickly spread, swallowing the tiny plane and
bleeding down on the tree and the cat and Joseph.
The air was warm and tasted like honey.
He stood to his feet and looked around. Everything was still there. The swing set with
the broken chain, the doghouse. The cat hadn't moved from its spot on the tree branch and didn't
seem to be bothered at all by what had just happened. The ghost of Ollie had disappeared, but he
could still feel the dog in the ether.
The ground beneath him was soft and offered little resistance to his feet as he bounced
across the yard like an astronaut on the moon, getting a little higher with each step.
By the time he reached the edge of the yard he was bouncing high enough to completely
jump the fence. He touched down in the middle of the neighbor's yard and then jumped high
enough to see over the tops of every house on the street. When he landed once more, he was half
a block from home. He made one more incredible leap and this time he stayed in the sky,
looking down on the neighborhood he recognized, now bathed in sweet, golden light. He
continued to ascend for a while, the houses getting smaller and smaller. The entire town was
spread out before him like a giant living map and he was able to identify Aunt Lisa's house and
the plant where Dad worked on the outskirts. There was the church, the movie theater, and the
park. The high school, the community center, and the bar.
The sky grew darker around him and a moment later it was night. A man stumbled out of
the bar and climbed into a four-door pickup. Three blocks away, Dad came out of their house in
his work clothes. He started up the family car and backed out into the street. Joseph watched
helplessly as the two vehicles were drawn to one another by some invisible force. The pickup

Energy 6

swerved over the yellow line and ran a stop sign. He wanted to call out to his father, to warn
him, to save him from the doom that was racing his way. He wanted to fly down there and tell
him to change course. Turn around, go back home. Anything.
Before he could act, however, the moment arrived. Dad's car pulled through the
intersection and the truck smashed into the driver's side door. A billion particles of light flew out
of Dad's body and spread out into the night like fireflies. Some of them floated up to where
Joseph was and surrounded him before fading away like dying embers.
Some of them fell to the earth and were absorbed.
Some of them clustered together in eddies and grew brighter before being carried away
on the wind to who knows where. Joseph chased one of these clusters, soaring through the night
sky until the town below became fields, and the fields became hills, and the hills became
mountains.
Soon he was over the ocean, still trying to grab hold of the twisting, turning cluster of
light. Just when he thought he had caught up to it enough to touch it, it exploded like a firework
into millions of tiny pieces, each one fading into nothing as it fell into the sea.
He hovered there above the surface of the water until uncertainty and despair overcame
him and pulled him from the empyrean realm and into the dark and formless deep.
He plunged headfirst into the abyss and, although he anticipated a biting cold, it was a
blanket of warmth.
The ocean cradled him and spoke assurances to him.
Heaven is all around us, at every moment. Even inside you.
Mom cried his name from somewhere beyond. From a place of sadness and dying, to
which he was afraid to return. Her hands pierced the fabric between the two worlds and pulled

Energy 7

him close to her.
“Joseph,” she asked, “are you okay?”
He sucked in a deep, sharp breath and the world regained its shape. Mom’s face came
into focus, her brow wrinkled with concern, her eyes still damp with tears. There was a stinging
sensation in his elbow. He touched it and saw a small amount of blood on his fingers. Mom
examined his injury and lifted him to his feet, guiding him back toward the house. Looking
back, he could see the neighbor’s cat watching them from the tree, unmoved, as Ollie’s fading
ghost barked at it from the ground below.


