Before the films burned, I carried them back and forth to the hospital with me. There
was something healing—I swear it, my darlings—in the violet light from the projector, in
my image, shuddering on the screen at the foot of my bed. I would sit for hours, the chemo
bag hovering above me, the catheter stiff with its urgent message, and see myself whole
again.
Who would have dreamed, dear tidbits, that the very films which destroyed me
professionally would later give me such private consolation? Certainly not I. Wrestling my
way into contraptions like the leather harness I wore for Siren Song, I could hardly be
expected to feel anything but pain. Large, hardware-studded straps bound my breasts,
forcing them up and out, when what they craved in their twilight was to droop luxuriously,
to hang like ripe fruit. The same straps snaked behind my back, then wrapped around my
hips and between my legs, a double-cross that would have done the Marquis de Sade proud.
My thighs may have chafed at the time, but Siren and the other box office disasters
came to mean everything to me. Their picture of health, their cheerful illusion of lust
soothed me when I needed it most, calmed and fortified me even as the tumor was rotorooting my gut.
At home, each time the cramps became unbearable, I would drag myself, cradling
my swollen abdomen like a colicky child, to the screening room. There, a pillow folded into
one of the velvet seats, I drank up those long limbs, that nimbus of wild, bleached hair. I
marveled at the tempting, parted lips and yelled with the vixen on the screen, "You may do
what you want with my body, but you will never have my heart!"


That was before the fire last week. I was away from home, so only my better half
was destroyed -- along with the screening room, the guest cottage and two-thirds of the
main house. I combed through the rubble afterwards, but couldn't find so much as a film
canister. The man from the insurance company told me the stuffing in the plush seats had
acted like a fuel, feeding the flames, kindling a heat that boiled metal.
And so, sweet meats, I am no longer immortal. My beautiful youth, or its
approximation, is ashes. Nothing stands between me and the abyss. Nothing except my
hound-eyed oncologist and this journal. I've been scribbling away on tablets the nurses
give me. Every page is topped with one of the seven warning signs of cancer: #1 - A
CHANGE IN BOWEL OR BLADDER HABITS.
Though I've come to letters late in life, I seem to be making up for lost time. Even on
this, the morning of what Dr. Cameron calls my "procedure," I am crouched over a little
pad, writing furiously. It is as though these notes to you have taken the place of the old
films. As though, washed, shaved and naked under a backless gown, I can still call up the
star I was, make you see her, make you want her again. And if, reading my words, you
tremble, if you put down this page and clap your hands, together we may yet revive poor
old Tinker Belle.
Another page, another sign of cancer: #2 - A SORE THAT DOES NOT HEAL. What I
am writing now may be a very short story, ginger snaps, or the first chapter of a novel. It all
depends on the outcome of the operation Dr. Cameron took considerable pains to explain
to me last night. He lumbered into my room with a little plastic model and took it apart, like
a puzzle, on my bed. "Now, then," he said, yanking at a prune-colored piece that came away
with a startling snap, "let's look at your cervix, shall we?"

I scribbled while he talked. I let him think I was taking notes, when in fact I was
writing to you. Dr. Cameron is a large man, his red hands swiped the sheets like beef chops.
He had trouble separating one of the pieces from his model and ended by pointing to it
where it hid behind the blue tail of the colon. He nodded solemnly, using words like
"invasive," "neoplastic," and my favorite, "debulking."
I'm afraid that's all I can remember. I confess I have a tendency to ignore the good
doctor when he turns professorial. He's well-intentioned, bits, but carried away with being
surgeon to the stars. He listens to himself when he talks, convinced that whatever he says
to me will find its way into print, or be broadcast to an anxious public hungry for news of
Sable DeWitt. A rather rosy view, considering that neither you nor the press have given a
damn about me since A Kiss for Luck.
That was the last film that paid for itself; the movies I made with the Ambassador,
the ones that consumed themselves last week, played to empty theatres for the length of
their brief runs. They were so bad that all the major studios turned them down, forcing the
Ambassador to start his own production company. So bad that one critic revised his rating
scale to include a scoreless "black hole" at its bottom end.
#3 - UNUSUAL BLEEDING OR DISCHARGE. So why did I aid and abet those
abortions? Why did I strap and buckle and glue myself into ever more humiliating
costumes? I suggest, my treasures, that you too would have surrendered to the wistful,
menopausal splendor of the Ambassador's delusions. Whose heart is so jaded it would not
have been moved at the sight of my jowly, balding mate in his Francis Ford Copula outfit?
At the way he paced the set, whispering commands in his Ivy League sotto voce, shirt open

at the neck, black boots carrying him forward at a constant tilt, as if he were commiserating
with his pinched toes?
Unfortunately, my trials went well beyond torturous costumes. How I girded myself,
how I shuddered inwardly each time the Ambassador interrupted a take, each time he laid
aside his clipboard and put both moist hands on my bare shoulders. "Sable," he would say,
"this is where I need your demure side." He would look deeply, knowingly into my eyes.
"Before she meets the Count, Isabel is a naive peasant. Your motivation here is hunger, not
lust."
Motivation! Imagine that doddering diplomat lecturing me on motivation—me, who
made more than thirty movies while he was bowing from the waist and learning to say
"due consideration" in five languages. But the man's presumption knew no bounds, and
once he actually grabbed me by the waist, changing places with me so that I could study his
interpretation of a role. He struck my pose, repeated my line in a high-pitched whinny
intended to be our heroine's voice. "My Lord," he recited, sounding like a walk-on in a
grade-school play, "I am at your disposal, body and soul."
Heaven knows from what literary trash heaps he retrieved those elaborately
plotted, gruesomely written scenarios. But you can imagine the foreboding with which, at
an age when most former femmes fatales are scrambling for character parts, I took on
challenges like Destina, the story of an orphan who rises to corporate stardom by
marketing her perfume and her body. Or Firebrand, a film that turned Annie Oakley into a
nymphomaniac who threw herself with equal vigor at cowboys and cattle.
#4 - THICKENING OR LUMP IN THE BREAST OR ELSEWHERE. "Dearest," I would tell
the Ambassador, trying to return his latest script, passing it back with what I hoped seemed

more like humility than revulsion. "I'm afraid I could never do this role justice. It should go
to someone younger, a luscious strumpet."
"There is no strumpet more luscious than you," my gallant husband would insist. He
might have added, of course, that no one else in her right mind would even consider those
ruinous parts. So, like it or not, I was the star of every maddeningly inept Rothstein-DeWitt
production. And, hit or not, the Ambassador cherished each one, watching them over and
over in our private screening room. "This is no simple romance, Sable of mine," he would
say, a lather of excitement on his brow and cheeks. "It's the exploration of a universal
conflict between our desire to submit and our will to prevail."
Until the day he died, my husband continued to defend the artistic integrity of the
borderline pornography in which he starred me. He never took off those ridiculous boots,
never flagged in his belief that the empty theatres, the cruel reviews, my moribund career
were all preliminaries to the universal acclaim that was our ultimate reward. I trust he has
come to some reward by now, poor dear. As for my career? It never recovered from the
blows he dealt it.
#5 - INDIGESTION OR DIFFICULTY IN SWALLOWING. So I am trying to reclaim you
now, darlings, to win back the audience I lost. Here, prepared like an Aztec maiden for
ritual sacrifice, I write you propped at a fiendish angle. From the hall, an orderly wheels a
stretcher into my room, and standing at the foot of the bed, a nurse readies a hypodermic
with suspicious crispness. (She will not look at me, cherubs. She has turned her back to me,
hiding her bright needle.)
So we must work quickly, you and I. I must write, and you must read. Before they
take the knife to me, you must carry me away, whisk me off their astringent-smelling altar.

BEND THIS PAGE

6

There is no time for cautious courtship, tender foreplay. Tinker Belle's light is a fading
S.O.S., winking feebly as a firefly in fall.

Did you miss me, best beloveds? It's been several minutes since I was forced to stop
writing, to stuff your notes under my mattress. The nurse, you see, overcame her diffidence
long enough to give me a mildly insulting shot in the rump. Now she and the orderly, having
undone the straps of the gurney, are conferring in the hall. Sly and desperate, I drag my my
pen across this page, wandering into large, unmanageable loops. Still, I am heady with the
thought that long after the operation, perhaps long after I am making penicillin
underground, you will read me as I was.
Forget that I am rotting from the inside out, my flesh sunken against my vitals.
Forget that my eyes tear constantly, that my face is dry and juiceless as an ancient lemon.
Remember, instead, the small child with a perfect mouth, profound creamy eyes like a lake
at dusk; the little white-haired girl whose mother you kept stopping -- in stores, on
playgrounds, even on the bus. "What a beautiful child," you would tell my mother, over and
over until she knew I was a monster. "Have you taken her to a talent scout?" you asked.
"Have you thought about movies?" Over and over, until she did.
I wasn't Sable De Witt then, I was Patricia Ann Houten, a cooperative, quiet child
embarrassed by the distinction of my beauty, by the way you were always cupping my chin,
talking to me, touching me. "You're too pretty for words," you would tell me, "just too
pretty for words." I didn't have anything to tell you back. I didn't even know your name.
#6 - OBVIOUS CHANGE IN A WART OR MOLE. You needed me from the beginning,
you see. And your need became my mirror, the only place I saw myself, day after day, role

BEND THIS PAGE

7

after role. At first, my mother went with me to the studio, standing anxiously at the fringes
of the sound stage, tripping over wires, unwrapping aromatic sandwiches.
But one day the producer asked her not to come anymore. He told her they would
send a car for me instead, and every day from then on, a long, purring limo picked me up in
front of our house. Soon, in a matter of months, Patricia Ann Houton disappeared. In her
place, Sable DeWitt, sprung from your devotion, forged in the cauldron of your love, left her
mother, her dresser with pink bunnies painted on the drawer pulls, and a life whose
rhythms were slow and regular as sleep.
"Sable sizzles!" "New star on the horizon!" "DeWitt's a bomb -- a sex bomb!" The
reviews for Last Chance brought you to me by the hundreds, then by the thousands. You
begged me for autographs. You haunted my hotel, the restaurants where I ate. You stole
pillowcases I'd slept on, napkins stained with my lipstick, buttons, strands of hair, food
from my trash. You stalked me patiently, relentlessly, and the more you dreamed of me, the
more beautiful I grew.

Take Three: The nurse and orderly stopped flirting long enough to lift me onto the
stretcher, but now I am alone again. Alone and very dizzy, my angels. The tablet, tangled in
my bed sheets, took me forever to retrieve. But I need to write you about Scott Fallon. Do
you remember my co-star in Warm Front? How tall he was? Lean and dark, with sinister,
hooded eyes and the sort of wounded half-smile that draws women for miles. You adored
him; you adored us together. In Warm Front, I played a paralyzed dancer, and in the final
scene, Scott lifts me from my bed and whirls me around the room to the procession theme

BEND THIS PAGE

8

from Swan Lake. "I'll be your legs, darling," he tells me tenderly. "We will be partners
forever."
In real life -- can you bear it, loves? -- our dialogue was somewhat different. "Hey,
Babe," my leading man said when I told him I was pregnant, "we ain't going to the chapel
just because you forgot what time of month it was." At close range, Scott was hardly the
sensitive, tortured soul he appeared on screen. He sucked his spaghetti, called everyone
"Babe," and took fewer showers than anyone I've ever known.
But if my co-star didn't stick to the script, I followed it slavishly. "I don't care what
you do," I told him. "I'm having this baby." (I knew what you'd want me to say, you see. I
knew how brave and principled you dreamed I was.)
"And how will that make me look, huh?" Poor Scott was genuinely bewildered,
stretched beyond his capacities by view points other than his own. "I mean, what exactly do
you figure that's going to do to my image?"
"Hey, Babe," I told him. "I couldn't care less."

There should be a chain of tiny stars here—to signify still another interruption. This time,
they wheeled the stretcher out of the room and pulled it onto an elevator. I slipped the
tablet under my bruised hip, then spent the ride staring up into strange faces, sagged with
gravity and concern. I was wheeled off at basement level, then left to lose consciousness in
this drafty room. Cold lights are bouncing off chrome and steel. My legs and arms are
turning numb, but I roll over and pull the tablet from under me.
You wrote me letters during my pregnancy. Hundreds and hundreds of letters,
telling me how brave I was, how you admired me for placing the sanctity of life above my

BEND THIS PAGE

9

career. You wrapped trinkets in the envelopes, sent me packages of baby clothes and
blankets and silver spoons. But most of all you chose names for the baby. Boys' names like
Cedric and Garth and Lyle and Sherman. Girls' names like Estelle and Ashley and Morgan
and Lucinda.
I didn't name my baby until she was dead. And then none of your names were right.
You'd sent me saucy names like Brandy, sweet ones like Taffy, elegant ones like Justine.
They didn't belong to my little still-born daughter, to the tiny, wrinkled girl who smelled
like dead flowers on the side of a vase. I called her Camille. She was supposed to be a happy
ending. I don't want to write about her anymore.
I made movies with a vengeance then. Some were good, some were bad, but none
approached the low watermark to which I sank when I allowed myself to get involved with
the elderly, tuxedoed suitor who dogged my every step after Silent Heart.
#7 - NAGGING COUGH OR HOARSNESS. The Ambassador showed then, I suppose,
the same persistence, the same oblivious tenacity that had earned the praise and gratitude
of two Presidents. Afterward, when I learned who he was, I found pictures of him in old
newspapers, photos of a tall, square-chinned figure striding down barricaded streets,
meeting with bearded guerillas, boarding rust-covered bi-planes at the end of jungle
runways.
Quite simply, the man knew no fear. He was thick-skinned and arrogant, with an
effete, slender nose that quivered when he was on the scent. He wasn't at all what we'd
dreamed of, pigeons, but he wouldn't go away. Stepping across my path outside the studio,
waiting with flowers at my hotel, sitting at the table next to mine in clubs -- there was no
end to him. And to his wearisome, heavy-handed devotion.

BEND THIS PAGE

10

"I will not live without you, Miss DeWitt," he told me early in our one-sided
courtship. "I am too old and too rich not to get what I want." I laughed at the time,
unfastening a pearl-and-diamond brooch he'd pinned to my breast. "And I, Mr.
Ambassador," I told him, "am too young and too beautiful to even consider spending my life
with you."
We were married in a small civil ceremony. And if an old warhorse isn't a stallion, he
is good for nose-rubbing, for quiet grazing, haunch to haunch. We became fast allies, he and
I, reading each other's whims from across a room, gossiping, staying home for long
weekends, sprawled in a nest of newspapers and take-out food cartons. Content.
Which is why, years later when you abandoned me, dumplings, when you left me
alone in the wake of those pathetic films, I survived. I even learned to cook, began to share
the Ambassador's fascination with bonsai. Sometimes, inhaling my red pepper pesto, or
bracing a tiny, gnarled limb with florist's wire, I wondered if it hadn't all been for the best.
If those black-hole movies hadn't been instruments of providence, to bring me back to an
earlier time, a slow and dreamy life I'd forgotten. A contained, unexamined peace.
But then my good companion died, felled by a heart attack that left him upright in
his lounge chair, mouth half open, eyes widened in surprise. I was abandoned again, alone
with the old movies and a tumor that whispered to me in the dark. "I claim your cervix," it
whined. "Your ovaries are mine. They are like columbines, swollen, seductive. And I am a
bee, sucking, sucking." Nothing would stop the pain, my lambs, nothing I could do or
swallow or inject.
Still the movies helped. That shady baggage who went up in flames last week was
my salvation. Crouched under the projector's stuttering light, redeemed by her painted

BEND THIS PAGE

11

beauty, I was equal to the struggle. "You'll never have me!" she and I yelled together.
"Rough hands will not take from me what a gentle kiss would yield."
Now, lambs, you must carry that lovely strumpet off with you, read her back to life.
Only a minute ago, Dr. Cameron peered down at me from a great height. Behind him, I saw
a gloomy man fill a second syringe. They have disappeared again, but I can hardly write, my
jewels. The world is spinning and I need to sleep.
I promise, though. Even under clover and onion grass, I will feel your love. Read my
cheekbones, not shadowed and lost, but plump with youth. Read my hair, not thinned by
chemo, but rich and full, the color of desire. Read my breasts and hips, round with longing,
waiting for your touch. I am not more beautiful than you can imagine, but exactly that
beautiful.
Soon they will come back. The nurse will hold out a stiff, forbearing hand, ask me to
surrender my tablet. They will give me another shot, and tell me to count backwards. Seven,
I will say, twirling away from them toward you. I am dancing even now, stamping and wild,
my body a flame. Can you see me? Six, I will whisper, lost to the music, turning. Already my
hair falls over one eye, my skin shines with perspiration and my legs flash like rain on sea
grass. Five, I am whirling faster now, so fast I leave you behind. Four, you stumble after me,
breathing heavily, stiff with need. Three, you reach out, fold me laughing against you. Two,
we are falling together, swept under a dark, foam-headed wave. We are One now, you and I.
Mark me, my precious morsels. Bend this page. Bite the corner off. No one will see you.
Devour me. Swallow me whole.


