Nobody blinks twice when little girls recite love poems dedicated to daddy and
when mommies never wonder about side-long glances. So long and side-wounding
to the object of affection.
Daddy didn’t do it damnit!
Mommy makes me mad.
Blaming broken bike
For boy’s bruised back
A bat. A bat.
Was a bat did that.
Nicholas George was barely breathing by the time the aluminum slugger stopped
swinging. He didn’t whimper a word and I just stood there in awe. Amazed at my
father’s single-minded sweep. Such dedication! Hands choking the grip with a
winner’s determination. He was hopin’ for a homer. And I was just hoping. And
wondering….Who in the hell ever invented the safety in suburbia? The white picket
fences that keep dangerous dogs out, the bolts, locks, and chains on doors that make
kidnapping difficult and a five-year-old’s escape impossible. The soft edges and
hand-made quilts. The razorless apples on Halloween. It’s all so safe.
While no one was watching, all kinds of things happened in suburbia. My brother
was thrown around like a Frisbee, and I was rewarded for my silent perfection.
You see, my father had no love left over for Nick, because he’d spent it all on me. I
tried to make sense of it all, but I was in too deep. Besides, my brother had my
mother- wasn’t that enough?
There was an idea of forever in my father’s smile and his black brown ocean deep
eyes. he loved me more than I could’ve guessed back then, but somehow it was offkilter and unlawful, almost prison worthy. he had a touch of Lolita lust in his veins.
where’d he catch it? from his father? a dirty old uncle? or maybe on the filthy
freighter shipping him across the sea?
he had it bad. holding me too close for too long. somehow I managed to calm him, to
soothe his worries with the touch of my baby hands.
he was my first true love. I forgave him everything. the flying highchairs and lost
teeth, the broken arms and homicidal threats. I closed my eyes and prayed he
would wake up from his nightmare and realize that I was his. his.
he did wake up. each and every time, a little later, a little less sorry, a little more
entitled. armed with a bag of ice or a face full of tears, he would trick me into
believing I had driven him to the edge. a trick I would later use throughout most of
my adult life.
then he abandoned me. when my body finally succumbed to puberty. the widening
hips, minefields of exploding pimples, bad hair and braces.
while wrapped in the cocoon of my metamorphosis, he quit me. he loathed my
teenage American ways. I clung so desperately to our secret history and replayed
the dimly lit scenes behind the safety of my bedroom door. I had hope. but it was too
late. he hurt me so deeply that I felt it at the core of my organs, in the swift stream of
my blood, and in the heartbeat of my brain. the denial and abandonment of most
loved one. I became only daughter, and hardly so. I hated this thing I had become,

this ugly mass of flesh I did not want, of a face I could not recognize and a voice that
did not speak.. what was left to say? sorry? he was not sorry. he dumped me . no
more games. tv time. whispers in ears about who we love the best. no more
saturday morning breakfasts. just my father and me. his cowboy boots ringing
through the restaurant, smoking his kent 100s. homefries with fried onions. eggs
over easy. his coffee with two creamers and three sugars. I had lost. big time .I was
desperate to fill the hole. to find something close to the biggest baddest love of all.
the men began to file in. one after another. sometimes two at a time. most of them
were weak-kneed mama’s boys, closeted queens, quarterbacks with big clumsy
hands and sweaty shorts, or just plain wrong for me. I wanted something but I
couldn’t quite put my finger on the pulse of that desire. I wanted my greek cowboy.
the one who promised me at five that he would love me forever. I had no idea the
price I’d pay for throwing my arms around his neck and vowing my eternal love.
but I was only five. he was old enough to know better.


