Bob’s father arranged for the family to move into a rental property in a
neighboring suburb as they eagerly waited for the completion of their new house. He
assured them they’d only live there for about a month. Shortly after they settled into
their temporary home, Bob was on his bed, absorbed in reading a comical scene
featuring Betty and Jughead. Bob’s mother came into his room.
“Bob, it’s time you grow up. Your ‘funny books’ have to go.”
“What do you mean?” he asked, half-listening.
“Those comics you’re saving are old. They’re worthless. You need to throw
them away.”
“What are you talking about?” He jumped off the bed and stood staring at her,
struggling to come to grips with the gravity of her statement. He had always taken
pride in his comic book collection. It exceeded forty issues and to him, they were
priceless.
“Your interests are changing, Bob. Think how lightning bugs, cartoons, and
playground equipment have become meaningless. Even the things you find
entertaining today are different from when we first moved from Ohio last year.”
“But they’re my favorites. I like them. And they’re still entertaining.” He paced
around his room, his world in shambles.
“You stopped buying Mickey Mouse and Donald Duck comics years ago. You
haven’t bought a Superman comic since who knows when. Television has new shows.
Besides, you’re eleven years old. There’s a world out there you should explore, be a
part of, including friends you haven’t seen for over a year.”
She turned and walked out after making it clear that Bob’s life was about to
change.
The idea of parting with his collection was horrible, as unnerving as anything
he’d ever experienced. They represented a time capsule, a refuge from boredom.


Being deprived of Dick Tracy, Archie, Jughead, and his superheroes stung worse than
being sentenced to a diet of cottage cheese and lima beans.
Bob couldn’t begin to comprehend losing his literary companions to a garbage
bin. He had no intention of surrendering without even trying to avoid this catastrophe.
He knew he needed to hide them. But where? Being in a rental house limited his
options. It didn’t have an attic, and the owner kept the garage locked.
His search led to an air vent strapped to the ceiling in the basement. A movable
access panel helped provide a secure place to conceal his comics. With careful timing
and a sturdy chair, he hid the windows to his past.
A month after the family moved, his father returned from a National Guard
outing and gave Bob his Army footlocker. He always wished he had one––the holy
grail of stencil-imprinted military furniture. He was excited to show his friends this
official United States-issued artifact, a gem any boy would cherish.
The footlocker had scratches, nicks and chipped edges––markings from its
travels, its secrets. Could he add to its history, its stories? Bob wondered.
He fiddled with the latches, moved the upper compartment and replaced it
several times. It was exciting to imagine what he could protect. As he sat there
admiring his new treasure, the locker’s safekeeping potential rang a bell. It reminded
him he hid his comic collection in the rental house several weeks ago.
Saturday, two weeks later, his parents had a laundry list of errands that would
fill the rest of the afternoon. They took his brother and sister, Tom and Susan, with
them. Bob begged off with a typical excuse; he needed to study for next week’s
history test and watch a news show.
Seconds after they piled into the car, Bob grabbed his bike and launched into
this journey, emboldened with the prospects this adventure held. He sped across the
long bridge and over the river that sliced through the center of town, exhilarated from
the wind against his face and his hair dancing in the breeze. Now was the hour to


retrieve his collection without his parents realizing he’d left. If no one was there,
however, he knew his trip would be for naught.
As he approached his destination, his enthusiasm sprang alive when he spotted
an old van in the driveway. The house had a simple, nondescript appearance, sitting
on the corner and neighbored by vacant lots. Bob was glad he only lived there for a
month after spotting the rusty gutters in need of a fresh coat of paint and a roof
begging for new shingles.
Eager to complete this undertaking in record time, he hopped off his bike and
raced past the thorny bushes lining the path to the front porch. He rang the doorbell,
relieved to hear the familiar sound of someone unbolting the lock. The tenant, a
middle-aged, slender man with dark eyes and ashen complexion, opened the door.
Struggling to catch his breath, Bob said, “Hi. My family moved from this house
several months ago. I hid my comic books in the basement and wanted to take them
home.”
The man looked at Bob, then out to his bicycle. “Well, you’re welcome to
come in and get them.”
Bob happily accepted his invitation.
“I see you biked here. Did you move close?”
“No, we live on the other side of town now.” Bob felt disoriented since the
man’s furnishings replaced the arrangement Bob’s family had in the living room and
made it seem so different from when he live there.
“You had quite a trip. I’m surprised your parents let you ride a bike this far
from home.”
“Oh, they don’t know I’m here,” he said as he noticed piles of clothes in
chairs and magazines and empty cigarette packs scattered on a table.
“Care for a soda or glass of water?” The man turned toward the kitchen, his
hair fluttering in the fan’s listless breeze.
“No, I’d better stick with getting this done as soon as possible.”
3

“What’s your hurry?” the man said as he led Bob to the back of the house.
“My family went out shopping, and I want to be home before they return.”
Dusty sunlight oozed out from between the blinds and dirty windows as he
trailed the man to the stairway. The man flipped on a light switch and they proceeded
down into the basement.
Once on the lower level Bob noticed how the dead air still had a musty odor.
The lighting there had always been weak, and after his bike ride in broad daylight, he
strained to get his bearings. The man followed Bob as he wandered around the dimly
lit surroundings, assessing the area: boxes, tools, a workbench, a freezer––then he
spotted the vent.
Neither of them could reach it.
“You’ll need a chair or ladder,” the man said as the dim light and shadows
conveyed a weird effect on his face, casting it in a dull shade of pale.
“I have a short one upstairs.” The man turned and started toward the stairs. He
quickened his pace as he walked across the concrete floor, his footsteps echoing like a
fading drumbeat.
Bob’s mind plunged from retrieving his comics to what was happening. No one
knew he was here except this man and why did he tell him that his parents didn’t
know he came here?
As the man turned to walk up the stairway, Bob realized he was going to be
alone in this man’s basement. His thoughts retreated to an earlier situation when his
mother and father had warned him about getting into a car with strangers.
“My brother can’t wait for me to take them home.”
Absent a response, Bob called out, “I told him I’d bring them back,” speaking
louder as the man continued climbing the stairs.
Didn’t he hear me? Bob thought. “He loves comic books,” he shouted.
Bob’s thoughts raced from a feeling of not being heard, to one of being ignored.

4

The lights went out. In the sudden darkness that surrounded him, Bob started to
scream.
“Sorry,” the man yelled as the lights came back on. “It’s a habit, turning off the
lights when I leave the basement.”
Bob sensed prickly goosebumps rising on his arm––a gnawing in the pit of his
stomach. As he stood there, sounds he hadn’t paid any attention to before became
magnified: footsteps from floorboards creaking above, the slow dripping of the utility
sink faucet, the brushing of his fingers as he rubbed his hand across his forehead.
He scanned this room of bare concrete walls encased below a two-story house
and felt as if they were closing in on him. He feared the door would close, a horrifying
creature would grab him––that he shouldn’t be down there.
Bob wiped at the dampness on his lips then took a few steps, his mind racing
with the thought of charging up the stairs before anyone slammed the door shut.
The man appeared at the top of the stairway. Something protruded in front of
him. Bob stood motionless, his feet rooted, unable to think as the man slowly came
down the stairs.
When he reached the bottom, he walked toward Bob. “I’m not sure where I put
the two-step, but this short ladder is better than a chair and it’s longer.”
He placed it below the vent. Bob looked at him for a moment before beginning
his ascent. As he climbed, he shifted between glancing at the vent and this man. Now
he understood why a blank expression, accompanied by dead silence, can be so
discomforting. Bob pushed the door open, shivering at the muffled screech. He
reached around for the comics––a collection that had pleased him so much throughout
the years had lost its allure in a matter of minutes.
They weren’t there.
In a fleeting moment of confusion, Bob backed down, senselessly muttering
about the comic books being gone. The man said nothing. As the man folded the
ladder, Bob turned and hurried toward the stairs. He began climbing, grabbing at the
5

handrail for speed. As he quickened his pace, he envisioned hands reaching out from
under the dark steps, gripping his ankles.
He rushed to the front of the house and threw open the screen door, flinching at
the loud snap when it sprang shut behind him. Thanking the man for his troubles had
vanished on the basement floor. He grabbed his bike and pedaled away as fast as
possible, stealing a glance over his shoulder at each intersection––for what, he didn’t
know.
Pain seared through his legs when he reached the river. Out of breath, he
walked his bicycle over the sidewalk that spanned the bridge, taking an occasional
glimpse at traffic––or for anyone behind him. Tired and confused, he stopped halfway
across and stared out… at nothing.
His mind raced with questions. What happened to the comic books? Were they
discovered because they blocked the air? Had his mother heard him place them in the
vent? Did she throw them out before they moved? Where were they? He couldn’t ask
her.
His eyes burned from surveying the last of the afternoon sun as it continued
sinking below the horizon. He raised his hand for shade, then peered into the flowing
water, into the deep, shifting ripples. A branch came into view. He became spellbound
as it floated along until it seemed to speed up before disappearing into the distance.
Returning home empty-handed, he was disappointed to find no one there. But
he didn’t feel right about anything. The comic books were out of his life, an
unexpected ending to what had begun with such high expectations.
As he retreated upstairs, he clutched the handrail tighter with each step. Once
inside his room, he looked at the footlocker. As if captivated, he stood there staring at
it before walking over, his eyes drawn to its nicks, scratches, chipped edges––small
imperfections that gave it character––yet said so much. A slight crack almost hidden
near the bottom and going halfway across the front caught his eye, a defect that must
have escaped his earlier observations.
6

He opened the footlocker and looked in, then flipped the latches closed tightly,
as if locking something inside, deep inside. Coated with the day’s events, he wished
he hadn’t even gone. What happened today was a secret he couldn’t tell anyone.
He sat on the locker and watched the shadows closing in on housetops, the sun
disappearing, the light from the streetlamp filtering through the leaves as he waited for
his mom and dad to come home. And Tommy. And Susie.

7


