Three days after she scratched a lottery ticket and won a
million dollars, Jen finalized her plan to leave Joe.
She'd never forget that feeling of momentary elation - on
Christmas Day no less. The numbers were always scratched in
order, top to bottom, left to right, so the fact the very last
number was the winner only added to the drama.
"Joe," she said, squinting in shock at the figure revealed
underneath.
Joe grunted, but remained immersed in the sports pages.
"Joe, I think...Oh, my God, Joe. Am I seeing this right?"
Jen stood up, but sat back down on the sofa after only a few
seconds. "I think I'm going to faint."
Joe looked up, pushing his reading glasses down to the tip
of his nose with his middle finger, like he was flipping the
bird. It was a familiar gesture that usually annoyed Jen, but not
today.


Once her dizziness passed, she compared the scratched number
at the end of the bottom row with the winning number at the top
of the ticket and looked again at the prize. She repeated the
process over and over, each time expecting disappointment,
confirmation that she'd made a crushing mistake.
Now that Joe's attention had been finally captured, it was
his turn to find his feet.
"What are you on about, woman?"
"It matches. The numbers. The prize," she said, and tears
began streaming down her face. "Here, you check it."
The moment Jen handed the ticket to Joe, her elation
subsided. It was abrupt, like entering a heated room after being
outside in the cold, and her face was filled with a burning
flush.
The ticket was bought by her mother, put in her Christmas
card, and addressed only to her. Joe would have to understand it was hers.
Using his customary middle finger, Joe's reading glasses
returned to the top of his bridge.
"Jesus Christ," he muttered, as he held up the ticket with a
chubby, trembling hand.
"Jesus Christ," he repeated, this time much louder. Wild
eyes stared at Jen, and she took a backward step.

"Whoo! Hoo!", he screamed, and ran around the tiny living
room swearing and throwing unintelligible insults at any object
that came into view. When he eventually calmed down and returned
to the sofa, he hugged Jen so hard she thought her ribs would
break.
"Say goodbye to this dump, Jen. From now on we're doin
everything in style."
I will need to be smart and do this right, Jen thought.
She tried to convince herself the sudden decision to leave
Joe had nothing to do with the money. There were other compelling
reasons, but it was still a tough sell. They'd only been together
for two years and married less than one, and she knew how it
would look to outsiders.
Jen often struggled with the little decisions - what to have
for lunch, which book to read next, when to color her everincreasing splash of gray on top. But when it came to the big
decisions, it was full speed ahead.
Joe was her second husband, and she knew even back when they
were exchanging vows in the dingy town hall, that everything was
too rushed. She didn't really know this overweight, unemployed
carpenter, who lived in a one bedroom cabin in the middle of
nowhere. So while her big decisions were not always good
decisions, at least they were made quickly and with finality. At
forty-nine years of age, anything was better than being alone.


Such was the case on Christmas morning. Jen had made her
decision. Joe had to go.
The three days that followed Christmas were grueling. While
Jen struggled to determine the best plan of escape, Joe's unique
style of celebration showed no hint of moderation. If anything,
his fervor was escalating, and he was becoming more and more
unpredictable. Jen knew she had to act soon. He was already
resisting her idea of a financial planner and insisting they cash
out now.
By the morning of December 28, an idea had formed. By midafternoon, preparations had been finalized. It was a simple,
uncomplicated plan that required the purchase of just three
items, and a visit to her mother's rented apartment. Sacrifices
would have to be made, but if everything went to plan, by this
time tomorrow she would have her freedom.
As afternoon merged into evening, and evening into night,
Jen battled her rising anxiety. The plan may be simple, but it
was not without its flaws. By the time the grease-smeared clock
above the kitchen stove ticked over to 1:00am, Jen just wanted it
to be over, one way or another. Her feet ached from constant
pacing. She sat on the bar stool at the kitchen counter, an
unopened bottle of Jim Beam a few feet away. She longed to take a
decent slug to calm her fraying nerves, but she needed her wits.

5

A SUDDEN CHANGE OF FORTUNE

You can do this. You will do this. It's a good plan. He'll
be home any minute. Calm down. Breathe.
She squeezed her left fist, feeling a twinge of pain in her
bruised forearm, and almost fell off her stool at the shriek of
the outside screen door's rusted hinges.
The front door careened open with Joe's full weight behind
it, and he fell in a crumpled heap on the mudroom floorboards.
The spectacle might have brought a chuckle from Jen under
different circumstances, but not tonight. Even from ten feet
away, she could smell his stench of sweat and bourbon.
A new odor emerged. She eased her slender frame off the bar
stool and took a step closer. Sure enough, a dark patch at his
groin confirmed it - Joe had pissed himself. A new low.
"Still celebrating, I see," Jen said.
"Something's wrong with the door," Joe said, managing to
gain a sitting position. "Thas all right." He giggled. "We can
buy a new one."
Jen sat back down on the bar stool.
"Help me up for Chris sake."
"You don't need my help, Joe."
"Hey," Joe said, getting to his knees. "Is that what I...Oh
yeah, it is!"
He stumbled to his feet, and for the thousandth time this
week, Jen thanked God that Kelly's Bar & Grille was only a few

6

A SUDDEN CHANGE OF FORTUNE

miles away, and there were only so many people and obstacles he
could potentially run down between the bar and their little
backwoods cabin.
"You get that for me?" he asked, pointing a trembling finger
at the bottle of bourbon.
"Yes, Joe. I got that for you. I want us to have a little
talk."
Joe almost fell again as he sideswiped the entryway into the
living room. Recovering his balance, he shuffled across to the
kitchen, his brow furrowed in concentration as he successfully
navigated around the edge of the coffee table.
Jen sat impassively on a bar stool with her hands in her
lap. Joe stood facing her, leaning his weight against the aging
kitchen countertop.
"Joe," she began, but stopped when she saw his smile. "No!
Don't you-"
Joe's meaty right fist connected with the left side of her
head. The force of the blow knocked her off the bar stool and
into the living room where she only narrowly missed striking the
coffee table. Through the explosion of pain, there was an
unlikely hint of muted laughter, but everything was diminishing,
fading away until there was only darkness.
***

7

A SUDDEN CHANGE OF FORTUNE

Jen emerged from unconsciousness while listening to her own
groaning. For a fleeting moment, she considered the illogical
notion that Joe had hit her so hard he'd knocked her head clean
off. Only her right eye opened, and for a few moments everything
was blurry. Trembling fingers touched the egg growing on the side
of her left eye socket prompting a wince.
A gargling noise came from across the room. Snoring. Very
familiar snoring. Jen lifted her head and it was clear a handful
of ibuprofen would be needed, but other tasks were more pressing.
Joe lay sprawled out on the sofa. Jen had to check her own
rising bile at the sight of dark, crusty vomit running from his
mouth and down the seat cushion of their beige sofa.
"Guess you'll want to buy some new furniture as well, eh,
Joe?" she said with a humorless smile. On the carpet below the
sofa, a brown stain the size of grapefruit pooled under a mostly
empty bottle of Jim Beam. Judging by the size of the spill, Jen
was hopeful he'd consumed most of the bottle before passing out.
At least that part of her plan had come to fruition.
A twinkling on the carpet caught her attention - broken
glass. Jen surveyed the room with her one functioning eye.
"Oh, my God," she said under her breath.
Every cupboard, drawer and shelf had been emptied of its
contents. Glasses, books, candles, photos, plates, and dozens of
other personal items - most of them hers and most of them damaged

8

A SUDDEN CHANGE OF FORTUNE

- were strewn across the floor. A glance toward the kitchen
revealed a similar scene. Her stomach went into freefall.
Treading over broken glass, Jen tried to reassure herself
that Joe wouldn't have the brains to find her hiding place,
especially in his state.
She stood over him as a fresh snore erupted.
"Joe," she said, but aside from his snoring, and the
rattling rise and fall of his chest, he looked as lifeless as a
cadaver.
She walked across the room to the basement door, every step
a new jolt of pain to the side of her aching head. She descended
the stairs, conscious of only having one good eye, and careful to
avoid the loose, third step. She groaned half way down at the
sight of opened storage boxes, clothes and various other
paraphernalia littering the dirty cement floor. A floorboard
creaked above her. Probably just the cold weather, she thought.
To her right, the chest freezer's compressor kicked in,
startling her. Jen walked over to it and lifted the lid.
Everything looked undisturbed. She shunted a bag of chicken wings
to one side and felt underneath a pork shoulder roast, still
wrapped in its shopping bag. A wave of relief washed over her as
she held up the bag with all the various items she'd purchased
that afternoon, plus a winning lottery scratch ticket worth one
million dollars.

9

A SUDDEN CHANGE OF FORTUNE

***
Jen bound Joe at his ankles, knees, and then tied his hands
behind his back. She used two plastic cable ties - six in all, to
make sure he was secured. Joe's incessant snoring continued
unabated throughout the entire procedure.
Now that Joe was immobilized, Jen felt better, or at least
safer, until she ventured into the trashed bathroom for much
needed ibuprofen, and saw her face in what remained of the broken
mirror.
A tear stung her one good eye as she gingerly touched the
side of her left eye. She removed her shirt and methodically
inspected her arms, stomach, back, nearly all of which were
discolored by a mass of dark bruising. Some had a yellow tinge,
but most were recent. An ugly darkened ring was still clear under
her functioning right eye - that beauty was courtesy of Joe's
celebratory zeal late on Christmas night.
After taking a deep breath, Jen put her shirt back on. There
was more to do. As she walked out of the bathroom, she felt more
determined than ever to see her plan through.
She retrieved a small portable paper shredder from the
storage closet and placed it on the coffee table with its drab
front facing Joe. Jen touched her breast pocket feeling the
smooth outline of the scratch ticket. All she had left to do was
to wait for Joe to wake up, and if it took a few hours, she

10

A SUDDEN CHANGE OF FORTUNE

didn't mind in the slightest. The ibuprofen had yet to kick in
and her throbbing head felt and looked the size of a bruised
melon.
***
It was the absence of snoring that woke Jen up. Her head was
fuzzy, and for a few seconds she couldn't work out why she was in
the living room and not in bed.
"Call Doctor Halveson," Joe croaked. "I musta had me a
stroke."
Jen took a deep breath, and was relieved to find her head
felt much better.
"Relax, Joe, ya fine," she said, checking her watch. It was
7:00am. He only had a couple hours sleep, would no doubt still be
smashed, but he could still listen.
"I can't move anything. My..." Joe shook his head and
squinted in the direction of his grimy dungarees.
"What the hell have you done, woman?" he yelled, and began
thrashing his legs about.
"You won't break them, Joe, so best you lie still and hear
what I have to say."
"The hell I will," he said through gritted teeth, but he
stopped struggling.
Jen saw hate in his eyes, and was struck with a profound
sadness. Where was the man she married? Where was the woman who

11

A SUDDEN CHANGE OF FORTUNE

married him? She didn't have an answer to either question, and
wasn't sure she even wanted one.
"Joe," she said, but couldn't continue. Speech was suddenly
impossible. Tears streamed down her face.
"You hid it well," he said calmly.
His smug demeanor roused her. "Hid what, Joe? The bruises
you gave me? Is that what you mean?"
Joe stared at his feet.
Jen moved to the foot of the sofa. "Look at me, you coward."
When Joe wouldn't oblige, Jen lowered her voice, but filled
it with menace. "Look at me."
Joe looked at Jen for a second before looking away.
She waited until his eyes returned to her before she said,
"That's right, take a good look. See what you've done. See how
pretty you've made me."
"I didn't," he began, but stopped when Jen's glare dared him
to continue.
"You're hiding it from me. That's not right, Jen. It's mine
just as much as yours!"
"Those cable ties around your legs, I bought them at Lowes,
Joe. $6.79. Such a small, insignificant purchase, but I made the
mistake of paying for it with a card, you see, and I had to
remove my sun glasses to see the signature pad. The skinny, no
good kid behind the counter..." Jen wiped her nose as fresh tears

12

A SUDDEN CHANGE OF FORTUNE

streamed down. "He gasped...Yes, he gasped. That was his reaction
when he saw my black eye. What have you got say about that, Joe?
I'd really like to know."
"You need to untie me, Jen, before this goes any further.
You've got no right to do this."
Jen almost laughed, but was instead overtaken by an urge to
vomit. She sat on the coffee table and took a few deep breaths.
The nausea took a few seconds to abate.
She turned her gaze back to Joe. "And now you've resorted to
sucker punching, I see."
"I knew what you were up to. Bottle of bourbon. We've got to
talk." The last phrase came out in a mimicry, whiny voice. "How
stupid do you think I am? If you don't split that money with me,
Jen, then it's stealing. No other word for it."
Jen exhaled. It was a long and satisfying breath. "You and
money, Joe." She shook her head. "Only worse combination I can
think of is you and booze. You're obsessed with both, and can't
handle either one of them to save your life."
Joe renewed his thrashing, but it only lasted a few seconds
before he belched, coughed, and then declared, "I'm cramping up
here, Baby. Come on, untie me. I need a drink of water. My head's
all messed up."
"I don't think so, Joe, but you're wrong if you think I
won't be splitting it."

13

A SUDDEN CHANGE OF FORTUNE

Jen smiled, took the lottery ticket from her pocket and
placed it on top of the shredder.
"You're the most destructive person I know, Joe, and
nothing's more certain to me than the fact we'd both be better
off without this ticket."
A guttural noise escaped from Joe's lips as his eyes doubled
in size.
"No, you wouldn't do it. You wouldn't," he stammered.
"All I need to do is turn this thing on, Joe, and we'll both
be out of our misery."
"Wait! Wait just wait a God-damned minute."
Jen could see sweat on Joe's forehead, and pressed on.
"It's the right answer, Joe. You'll see in the end."
"What the hell are you talking about?" he shrieked, renewing
his struggling.
"Well, Joe, here on the shredder is the quickest buck you'll
ever hope to earn. Don't get me wrong, I know how much it means
to you, which is why I'm more than willing to give it up."
"Show me the ticket. I know you're trying to put one over
me," he said, the panic in his voice unmistakable. "You'd never
do it."
Jen rolled her eyes again. "Really?" She removed the card
from the top of the shredder and held it a few feet away from
Joe's unshaven, puffy face. He squinted, and she could tell he

14

A SUDDEN CHANGE OF FORTUNE

recognized the card. She smiled as his eyes went to the bottom
row, where underneath the last number on the right, a million
dollar prize had been scratched.
"Please," he said, in his calmest voice of the night.
"You're not thinking. I know I've been...upset lately. But I was
excited. I'm so sorry, Baby. I didn't mean to hurt you."
"Hurt me? Look at me, Joe."
But Joe wouldn't take his eyes off the shredder. He started
crying.
"Joe! Look at me!"
He complied, his tears slowing.
"There's only one way I'm not shredding this ticket."
"Okay," he said, weepy but attentive.
"First off, I'm leaving you Joe, end of story. Final."
Joe stared blankly.
"Second, you're going to promise me, you'll not go after me
or my mother, and I mean no harassment whatsoever. We're gone
from your life. Understand?"
Joe swallowed hard, and then nodded.
"In return, I'll send you a portion of the lottery winnings,
but only after l know we're safe, and only after I know you'll
leave us alone and not come after us."

15

A SUDDEN CHANGE OF FORTUNE

"How," Joe began, but was interrupted by a ghastly bout of
phlegm-filled coughing. "How much?" he finally managed to
whisper.
"It won't be enough for you, but it'll be more than I want
to give you," she said.
Joe screamed, and renewed his thrashing.
Jen waved the ticket in front of Joe. "I'll do it, Joe, I
swear. You really want to try me?"
Joe ignored her, only stopping when he managed to roll off
the sofa.
"I can't believe you're ruining this," he said, sounding
defeated at last. "How can I trust you?"
Jen smiled. "The way I see it, that's your problem, not
mine."
"But it's my money, too" he said.
Jen stood up from the coffee table, looking shocked.
"You're unbelievable. You know what? I don't think you will
leave us alone, not while I've got this ticket. In your own
misguided, psychotic way, you really do think it's your money."
"It is!" he screamed. "Wait! What are you doing?"
Jen switched on the shredder. She placed the ticket on top,
next to the feeding lip.
"For richer or poorer, right, Joe?" she said, and pushed the
cardboard ticket into the shredder.

16

A SUDDEN CHANGE OF FORTUNE

Joe screamed, but all Jen could remember from that moment
was the same feeling of elation she experienced when she first
scratched the ticket. But this time, it lasted much longer.
***
Jen drove to her mother's apartment feeling as giddy as a
schoolgirl on her first date. She routinely broke into fits of
laughter, which hurt her bruised ribs, as she re-lived in her
mind the look on Joe's face as she shredded the lottery ticket.
Her mother was waiting in the lobby, her packed bags beside
her.
"You ready for a road trip?" asked Jen. "Canada's going to
be cold, but you look like you've got your whole wardrobe with
you." Jen laughed.
"Oh, sweetheart, look at your face. The bastard should be in
jail."
"I'm fine, Mom. No, I'm better than fine, and he won't get
to do anything to me again." She smiled, and added, "Hey, did you
get the cash out? Things are going to be a bit tight for us for a
while, and I don't want to use cards if at all possible. I'm
paranoid that way."
"Yes, Love. Went to the bank this afternoon."
"Great. Let's hit the road!"
It was a simple ruse, and only time will tell if it would
hold up. But for now, Jen felt confident. She was banking on the

17

A SUDDEN CHANGE OF FORTUNE

belief that Joe was too lazy to be vindictive, especially without
the motivating prospect of getting his grubby paws on her
fortune.
It had taken her eight attempts to find the same type of
scratch ticket with a million dollar prize in just the right
location. It was the biggest risk of the whole plan - that Joe
would look too closely at the ticket. But he was without his
reading glasses, and was hung-over drunk.
Maybe he would still chase her. Nothing's certain, but for
now, Jen's sense of elation just kept growing stronger.


