Renee woke when a crack of lightning striped the bedroom wall. She rolled off
the bed; prints from the tangled sheets stuck to her skin in thin lines like palm fronds.
She flung open the sheer curtains leading to their curved slit of a balcony and stumbled
onto the little platform. It was overcast, and although the sky was a grainy sheet of gray,
it was sharp and bright out. She grabbed her robe from the back of a chair and wrapped
it around her new, slender body. She caught her reflection in the black TV screen on the
way to the bathroom and smiled. She felt the similar elation she’d been feeling for the
past month or so thanks to her thin, improved body.
As she slathered lavender soap over her body in the shower, she felt a bulge at
the bottom left side of her left breast. She ran her fingers over it and pressed against her
armpit to make sure she had indeed felt something. ​Oh god, of course. I have everything
I’ve ever wanted and it’s all going to be taken from me.
Renee sat in bed with her towel wrapped around her long blonde hair and a thick
cotton robe around her body. She chewed on a nail as she flicked through her phone of
the few photos she had saved of their wedding. One of her bridesmaids had rounded up
all the pictures guests had taken and texted them to Renee on her way to the airport.
She was grateful now for the pictures. She’d worn a sleek, bright white silk dress her
mother would have hated. Jamie burst through the door. He took out his headphones
and flopped belly first onto the bed beside her.
“I’m wiped,” he said. “It’s disgusting out.” Renee didn’t say anything. She started
to pull at a hangnail that had started to sprout on her middle finger. She stood from the
bed and grabbed a water bottle from the mini fridge. She pressed it against the back of
Jamie’s neck. He winced and rolled over onto his back. “Thanks love,” he said, sitting up
and pulling Renee onto his lap. Renee brought Jamie’s hand to her breast to feel the
lump she’d felt in the shower.
“Yes, right there. Do you feel something?”
“No, I don’t.”
“Are you sure?”
“What, do you want me to feel something?”
“Of course not, what kind of question is that?” She pushed his hand off her and
stood up to pace the room. She poked the side of her breast again, but it felt fine, normal
even. Had she made up the lump? She couldn’t have. Why would she have done such a
thing in the first place?
“I’m sorry, Ree. I don’t feel anything. Want me to take a closer look, call the hotel
doctor?”
“Is there such a thing as a hotel doctor? I thought they were only in movies.”
“Of course they’re real. Want me to call one?”
“No, no that’s okay.” He raised his eyebrows. “Really, I’m sure it’s okay. I’m
okay.”
“I’m going to hop in the shower then.”
“Okay,” she said, smiling.
How had it only been a week? She was starting to feel anxious about getting
back to the city. She stepped onto the little balcony and looked down at the street. It was
so overcast she wondered when it was going to start raining. The air felt thick and heavy.
A woman in a blue and white striped shirtdress with a thin brown belt around her
waist trotted down the street carrying a wicker basket. Her brown floppy hat blew off her
head. She turned to look at it snaking its way back up the hill before she took off running

to get it. She was laughing as a man came running down to meet her with the hat in his
hand. They threw their arms around each other as he picked her up, swung her around,
and set her back on her feet to continue down the hill.
Renee felt as though she’d just seen a perfume commercial. She suddenly,
absolutely ​had​ to meet this woman, this couple. She slipped on her one-piece swimsuit
and a linen dress and almost smacked into Jamie as he walked out of the shower.
“Whoa, whoa I thought we could stay in today. Relax in the room, maybe grab
dinner in the restaurant next door?”
“But it’s so nice out!” she said, smiling, gesturing toward the window. A clap of
thunder struck just then. Renee laughed. “Honestly, I feel kind of stir crazy.”
“Do you want me to come with you?”
“Of course,” she said. She smiled at him and ran a hand down his arm.
“Alright, give me a few minutes to get ready.”
“Okay,” she said.
They headed out through the hotel, stepping onto the sparkly mosaic street just
as the first drops of rain split through the sky.
“Ugh,” she said.
“I told you a day inside would have been nice.” Renee looked around for the
couple she’d seen earlier, ignoring Jamie. She wondered if they’d gone back to their
hotel, or if they were braving the rain and sitting out on the beach. She and Jamie
walked along the border of the sand close to the few scattered restaurants that lined the
makeshift boardwalk. There! There they were, the couple. They were drinking glasses of
red wine and splitting a caprese salad. The woman was dipping a bread crust into a pool
of olive oil.

“Let’s eat here,” Renee said. She wasn’t particularly hungry; it was only eleven.
The bartender told them to seat themselves anywhere. Renee chose a table in line with
the other couple with a table between them. “Let’s order some wine,” Renee said.
“Doesn’t it bother your acid reflux?” Jamie asked. Renee swatted him away with
her hand. She hated to think of her recent ailment, the acrid liquid that ran down the
back of her throat like vinegar.
“It’s fine,” she hissed. “Two glasses of Pinot Noir, per favore,” Renee
half-shouted at the bartender. Renee whispered to Jamie, “Look at the couple at the
other table, right there.” He raised an eyebrow. “They look...just like us, don’t they?”
“What do you mean?”
‘’She looks just like me only, I don’t know, different, obviously. Prettier.”
“That’s not true,” Jamie said quickly.
“No really. I’m not trying to be self-deprecating, it’s just a fact. She’s prettier than
me, but she looks just like me.”
“So you’re saying the man is too? He’s more attractive than me?”
“No, I didn’t say that. I never said that.” It was ridiculous how sensitive Jamie
could be about his looks; his handsomeness was so obvious it was almost an affront.
“Then what do you mean?” he said, raising his voice.
“Oh, are you two also American?” the woman from the other table asked. Renee
and Jamie looked at her and Renee saw that Jamie now understood what she had been
trying to articulate—this woman looked just like her, but was an airbrushed, more
put-together, more angular and polished version of herself; if you blinked, you’d mistake
either of them for the other down to their long, shiny blonde hair. Renee couldn’t help but
stare.

“Yes, we are,” Renee said.
“Where are y’all from?”
“We’re from New York.”
“Oh the Big Apple, wow! We’re from Tennessee.” Renee nodded. Yes, I can hear
that,​ ​she thought. “Are you two honeymooning here?” the woman asked.
“We are.”
“Oh my gosh, so are we, aren’t we honey?” Honey groaned something in
agreement. “I’m Delilah, Lila for short, Lil for even shorter. And this is Sam, my
husband.”
“I’m Renee and this is Jamie, ​my h
​ usband. Wow that’s so weird to say.”
“How do you do?” Delilah said, giggling. “Sorry, this is what, our third glass of
wine? It’s just so dreadful outside, isn’t it? What else is there to do but drink their
delicious​ wine?”
“I kind of like when it’s gloomy like this,” Renee said.
“You do?” Jamie said. Renee kicked him under the table.
“Yes, I do,” she snipped. The two couples smiled politely at each other and went
back to having their own separate conversations. Toward the end of the meal, and after
another glass of wine, Renee leaned over toward the other couple.
“I have something I kind of wanted to tell you earlier,” she started.
“Really?” Delilah said. Sam was signing the check.
“I wanted to tell you that when I first saw you, well, that you both are like the
better looking versions of us,” she said, stumbling slightly over her words, pointing to
herself and Jamie. Jamie choked on his water. Sam looked up from the bill.

He watched Delilah and Renee ogling each other before saying, “Why don’t you
join us for a drink at our hotel later tonight? Tomorrow is our last day in this paradise and
we love collecting fellow Americans abroad.”
“Oh, that sounds wonderful. Don’t you think honey?” Renee said. Jamie gritted
his teeth.
“Of course.”
After they ironed out the details, Delilah said, “Well, we best be going. We’ll see
y’all tonight! And Renee, don’t be silly. We’re nothing like you glamorous city folk. ​You
are a great looking couple.” She fit her hat back on her head and led Sam out of the
restaurant, wobbling on her heels. Who wore heels on the cobbled streets here? Renee
thought. It had stopped raining. Sam put his hand on the small of Delilah’s back as they
rounded the corner and disappeared.
“You know, she’s right,” Jamie said. He reached for Renee’s hand and ran his
thumb over her skin. She relaxed. “We are a great looking couple.” Renee smiled,
tightly.
She took another sip of wine when Jamie said, “Did you hear the way Sam said,
‘collecting fellow Americans?’ It was weird, did you find that weird too?”
She just laughed and leaned forward, kissing Jamie. His green eyes suddenly
seemed duller, washed out like the sky. She looked away at the small, lapping
Mediterranean waves. The image of Delilah’s lips suddenly struck her—they were so full,
flushed red as though she’d just orgasmed. She’d worn tiny gold hoops in her small ears,
her hands adorned in dainty gold rings and a massive, teardrop-shaped diamond. Her
blonde hair was smooth and long as though it was just blown out in a salon, not at all

affected by the onslaught of humidity and rain. Renee pulled her own hair back into a
ponytail.
She smiled at Jamie and said, “Let’s get going. We can spend the rest of the day
in bed, and get that pesto pasta for dinner brought up later.”
On their walk back to the hotel, Jamie said, “We’re not seriously going to their
hotel for drinks tonight, are we?”
“Oh, I think we should. You know, my parents never talked to other couples when
they used to travel. They always seemed so sad and lonely to me.”
“Maybe they liked being that way; maybe they chose to keep to themselves.”
“They ​did ​choose that. That’s the point. I don’t want to be that way. I want to
make friends when we travel, have meals and drinks with other people, be friendly.”
“Why? We’re never going to see them again.”
“So? That’s not the point. In fact, it’s the opposite of the point. It’s just to have fun
and enjoy the company of strangers.”
“Is my company not enough for you?”
“Jamie, why do you always have to turn the conversation into a personal attack
on you?”
“I’m not. I just don’t get it. This is ​our ​honeymoon, ​our ​time to enjoy each other.”
“We have our whole lives to do that.”
That evening, they walked up the hill to Sam and Delilah’s hotel. It was drizzling
out. Renee tried to cover her head with her purse. The sky was pitch black with no
moon, but lampposts lit the mosaic path, catching the glint of a shiny, jagged piece every
so often and causing a bright dash of light for them to step through. Renee and Jamie
held hands, refreshed from the sex and the nap and the pasta. She gripped his bicep

with her other arm as they made their way up the windy hill. The hotel was at the very
top of the hill, secluded in a lush overgrowth of bushes and lemon trees. They walked
through the large, open iron gates into a courtyard with a huge porcelain fountain of
angels spitting water.
“It’s gaudy, don’t you think?” Jamie said. It wasn’t quite a palace, but wasn’t small
enough to be a villa either. It was painted a bright lemon color with trees lining the
exterior of the drive. They made their way to the front door feeling as though they were
walking through Eden itself. They rang the front doorbell and a man in a suit opened the
door.
“We’re here to see Sam and Delilah...oh gosh, I don’t even know their last name.”
Renee looked helplessly at Jamie who shrugged. Renee felt guilty for making them
come here to get drinks with strangers who, Jamie was right, they would never see
again. Maybe they should have just stayed snuggled up in bed. Delilah came running
through the lobby to the front door. She poked her head over the man’s shoulder before
brushing past him and grabbing onto Renee’s wrist.
“You made it! Come, right this way. Thanks ‘Cesco!” Renee cringed at Delilah’s
accent and her given nickname for the doorman. Why hadn’t her drawl bothered her
before? Delilah’s hair was in a high ponytail with a baby blue bandana tied around her
head. “Isn’t this ridiculous?” she said, leading them into the open air courtyard with yet
another massive fountain. “Sam found it. It’s so absurd, right?” Renee and Jamie
simultaneously wondered how much staying in a place like this would cost.
“It sure is something,” Jamie said. Renee stuck her hand up the back of his polo
and rubbed his smooth back. She then stuck her hand in his back pocket.
“Y’all look nice and refreshed. Have a siesta?”

“We did,” Renee said, squeezing Jamie’s butt through his pants. They walked
through the courtyard into the second half of the hotel. At the back was a glass bar
bathed in a soft yellow light which illuminated the bottles of alcohol behind the bar. “This
is so…swanky. I never knew places like this existed here,” Renee said.
“Isn’t it just to die for? Let’s get some drinks.” When they each had a glass, the
three of them cheersed. “Drinks on us, just charge it to room 303.”
“No, we couldn’t Delilah,” Renee said. Delilah placed her hands on Renee’s
waist, pulling her in slightly, and stared into her eyes with her bright violet ones.
“Lil, call me Lil please,” she said very seriously. “And yes you can. Vacation
friends are the best kind of friends.”
“Why?” Renee said. She could already feel the melon liquor snaking its way to
her brain, making everything feel syrupy and soft.
“Because you never have to see each other again, that’s why!” she laughed.
“Right,” Renee said. “Where’s Sam?”
“Oh, I think he’s still freshening up.” It was clear she had already been drinking.
Her eyes looked lazy; she couldn’t focus on anything for too long. Her eyelids were
slower to reopen after she blinked. “Do you think marriage will be a bore?” she asked
Renee. She was sitting on a barstool and motioned for Renee to do the same. Jamie
whispered into Renee’s ear that he was going to go for a walk and explore the hotel. She
nodded as he left the bar with drink in hand.
“I don’t know,” she said. “My parents had a very unhappy marriage.”
“So did mine,” Lil slurred. “But Sam, Sam’s different. People always say ‘you
know when you know’ and I just hate that phrase, don’t you? I hate all those dumb
phrases.”

“I do too,” Renee said, and suddenly felt a warm rush of love toward Lil. She
knew exactly what she meant, and she loved how open and friendly Lil was.
Lil continued, “That’s not to say I didn’t know with Sam, because I did. I really did
know. Everything just seemed to click, to fall together. I’m so happy sometimes I think I
might die.”
“Just this morning I thought I felt a lump on my breast. My mother died from
breast cancer recently. But I had Jamie feel for it and I looked again, and it was gone.
Did I make it up? Or am I just scared?”
“I’m really sorry about your mom,” Lil said. “What do you mean?” She was
drinking another peach-colored drink. She plucked the cherry out of the glass, bit into it,
then stuck the stem in her mouth.
“Am I just scared that I suddenly have everything I’ve ever wanted after wanting it
for so long? Do I think I’m going to die because I don’t feel like I deserve everything I
have?” Lil spit out the stem, perfectly knotted, onto the bar just as Sam approached
them.
“Hiya ladies. Where’d Jamie run off to?”
“I think he’s just wandering around.”
“You should go find him, Sammy.” He kissed the top of Lil’s head and left to find
Jamie. Lil twisted a thick bracelet on her wrist. Renee noticed dark purple bruising
turning lilac on her wrist. Lil said, “You’re not going to die.”
“I know,” Renee said, wondering about the bruises.
“And you do deserve to be happy,” she said. ​Did she put her bracelets on too
tight? Did she fall in those ridiculous heels of hers on the mosaiced paths? R
​ enee

already knew the answer, could feel it in the pit of her stomach like a fat drop of rain
smacking pavement.
“I’ll try one of those,” Renee said, pointing to Lil’s glass. She wasn’t much of a
drinker, especially since her acid reflux had begun flaring up before the wedding; it felt
like there was lightning in her chest most days. But she was relaxed now and on
vacation, grabbing drinks with someone she’d never see again. She could enjoy herself
with a drink or two, or was it three now?
“I’m worried I’ll do something unforgivable and he’ll leave me,” Lil said.
“What could you possibly do that would make Sam leave you, Lil?” she said.
Their heads were so close together they were almost touching. Renee pictured someone
standing behind them, looking into the indecipherable mass of blonde hair. She thought
of her mother’s head, which she’d refused to shave through the few months of chemo
she endured; her scalp was splotched with brown stains, patches of her leftover honey
blonde hair hanging on as though they had been glued to her head like a child’s art
project. Renee sighed. Would she ever stop having these images float to the surface of
her thoughts, even when she was on a different continent far, far away from home?
“Are you thinking of your mom?” Lil asked. Renee nodded. She swirled her straw
in the glass, knocking against the ice cubes. “I’m sorry she never got to see you
married.”
“She would’ve hated my dress.”
“I’m sure that’s not true.”
“No, she really would have.”
“Tell me a secret,” Lil said. “Anything. Something you’ve never told anyone.”
“I don’t think I have any secrets, does that count as one?”

“Nope.”
“I can’t think, I can’t think,” Renee said.
“Aw, come on.” Renee noticed Lil’s voice was suddenly lucid now, her
movements sharp and pointed. Renee looked down at her murky gray mojito. She
paused, staring at the floating mint leaves and thought, There’s no way. She shook the
idea of it just as quickly as it had come, but couldn’t remember having ordered a mojito.
She had never felt as drunk as she did now; she’d never lost count of how many drinks
she had, not even in college. Her tongue felt heavy in her mouth. Had she been
drugged?
Lil traced a finger up and down Renee’s forearm. It felt good at first, so good
Renee thought she was beginning to fall asleep. Then it stopped feeling like anything. It
was as though her arm were no longer her arm even though she was staring right at it.
Lil undid Renee’s low ponytail and began to play with the ends of her hair. How did she
know that was Renee’s favorite thing in the whole world? She relaxed into the feeling,
like threads were tickling and electrifying her scalp down to the ends of each strand. The
bar swirled and glowed in front of her. Lil took off her sandal and began to run her big
toe against Renee’s bare ankle. Little dots of sweat began to poke from Renee’s skin,
first her upper lip, then in the creases of her elbows; her arm hair stood on edge.
Renee rested her head on her arms on top of the bar. “I think I may have had too
much to drink.” Jamie stormed into the bar and crashed into Renee’s chair. He grunted,
“Let’s go.”
“Babe, what are you doing?” Renee said.
Lil tossed her hair over her shoulder and crossed her arms against her chest.
“We were just about to have some fun.”

“What happened Jamie baby?” Renee said.
“Sam had a little too much fun in the den,” Jamie said toward both of them. To
Renee he said, “He tried to feel me up.”
She laughed. “You sound like a girl,” she said, her voice like a screech, so loud to
her.
“Renee, come on, let’s get out of here.”
“Hmm,” she said. She looked at pretty Lil sitting primly in her chair, taking another
sip of her martini, nibbling on a green olive. “I think I’ll stay.”
“Renee, come on. I wanna get out of here. You’re too drunk, you’re gonna be
sick. Let’s get you back to the hotel,” he said. “Let’s go, I’m serious. Something doesn’t
feel right with these two,” he whispered in her ear. “How many drinks did you have?”
“Three? Four?”
“She had seven,” Lil said. “Seems like there’s already trouble in paradise if she’s
drinking seven drinks and doesn’t even remember.”
“She would never have seven drinks. And why are you even counting? Seems
like a weird thing to do,” Jamie said letting go of Renee just long enough for her climb off
her chair and slide onto the emerald-tiled floor.
“Pish posh Jamie, let me stay. I’m having fun with my new best friend.” He could
barely make out what she said. “I have to protect her,” she whispered to the ground.
“I’m going to go find you something to eat, some crackers or something. Is there
a vending machine in here? A kitchen?” Lil pointed to the right. Renee watched Jamie’s
back as he walked down what looked like an impossibly long hallway. He rounded a
corner by yet another water fountain and disappeared.

“Wanna see my room?” Lil said. Renee nodded. Lil reached out her hands and
helped Renee to her feet.
The room felt stuffy. The wallpaper was decorated in dark green banana leaves.
Lots of plants and mini palm trees cluttered the room. Lil threw open the curtainless
windows. Rain spilled onto the bed and the carpet. Renee shrieked, diving for shelter on
the bed underneath the covers. Lil climbed under the covers too and began to kiss
Renee. Renee moaned into Lil’s soft lips; she placed her hand on the back of Lil’s head.
Lil smelled like lilacs, and the sheets were delectably soft; Renee’s skin felt hot
and rapid, like it was melting and moving, being poured into a mold. She opened her
eyes for a second to find Lil’s closed. Was she kissing herself? She felt dizzy. Lil opened
her eyes. Renee pulled away and stared at her. Just then the door swung open and Sam
walked in, drenched, his blonde hair darkened and dripping onto the carpet.
“Where were you?” Renee asked, sliding off Lil and laying back down beside her
in the bed.
“Way to make yourself at home,” Sam scoffed.
“Were you outside?” Renee said. “Why were you outside?” Her voice sounded
faraway, not like hers at all. She reached for her voice and ended up falling off the bed,
crashing onto the floor where she laid still, staring up at the smooth, beige ceiling.
“Just took a little walk.”
“It’s pouring out.”
“And you girls let the water flood the room. What were you thinking?” he said,
shutting the windows. Lil rolled over in bed, curling around a clump of covers.

“We were just having some fun, “Lil said. Renee rolled over and threw up an
asparagus-colored pile of vomit onto the carpet. “What should we do with her?” was the
last thing she could clearly remember.
Renee woke up alone back in her and Jamie’s hotel room. Her dress was still on;
she rubbed the heels of her fists into her eyes, crumbling what was left of her mascara.
She groaned as what felt like an extension rod tried to expand inside her head between
her temples. She rolled over and threw a pillow over her face to block out the light. The
wind whistled through the objects in the room, the flower vases and the desk, the
bathroom door and the nightstand.
Small flashes came back to her of the previous night, of standing at the top of the
hill in the midst of all the fruit trees and bushes. Her feet, bare on the dirt path. Lil’s
sharp, bright blonde hair fluttering. Sam’s hands on the small of their backs leading them
somewhere. The valley beneath them was low and relentless, a whirlpool of darkness
and brush, the wind roaring on all sides of them. And suddenly Jamie was there,
screaming, or was she screaming? Or was it Lil who was screaming?
The door clicked open. Renee felt the weight of Jamie on the bed beside her. He
wrenched the pillow from her hands and threw it off the bed. He turned her over onto her
back so that she was facing up, and kissed her on the cheek.
“Hi,” he said. He took out his headphones and placed them on the bedside table.
“How are you feeling?”
“Sick,” she managed. “What happened last night?” Her leg stung; she realized it
was stuck to the sheet. She kicked off the duvet and peeled back the sheet to find her
shin raw and bloodied.

“Oh, that,” Jamie said. “We’ll have to get you some bandages.” She sat up and
vomited into the bin that was already placed beside the bed. She wiped the back of her
mouth and slunk back with her head on another pillow.
“Really. Don’t. Feel. Well.” Jamie walked into the bathroom and came out with a
cool washcloth he placed on Renee’s forehead. The room spun into a kaleidoscope. She
thought of the banana leaf wallpaper, the rain making everything damp and mossy inside
the hotel room, Lil’s fresh, floral smell, her lips, the mirror image of herself in Lil’s burning
violet eyes, the beating of both their bright blonde hair whipping her face at the top of the
hill, the screaming wind and the rush of the sea in the distance. Why had they stumbled
out to the hill? Why had they left the hotel room in the first place?
“Do you remember anything from last night?” Jamie said. He held her hand. “Are
you here? Earth to Renee?”
“What?”
“Do you?”
“I remember being at the top of the hill,” she said rolling onto her side away from
Jamie. “I think I was trying to find my way back to our hotel. Last night was so strange. It
was like I was with myself, but it wasn’t me, it was Lil. And I wasn’t myself, I stepped out
of myself. I felt so freed, so slow too, though. Everything was slow. I thought I was
drugged,” she said, smiling to herself. The smile slipped off her face. “I think I might have
been drugged.” She looked down at her arm; bruises the color and size of dark purple
grapes sprung up beneath her skin. Bruises. Shrapnel of the previous night’s events
exploded behind her eyes.
Renee had watched as Sam glared down at Lil on the bed. His hands shook as
though he were stopping himself from wringing her neck. He grabbed Renee by the wrist

and flung her from the floor to the bed so that she and Lil lay side by side. She could feel
Lil’s breath on her neck as she whispered, “Just do what he says.”
Renee knew that she would not want to do whatever he was about to instruct, so
she climbed over Lil, shaking her ankle free from Sam’s hand that had flown out to catch
her, and ran out the door. She raced through the lobby to the top of the hill. It had
stopped raining, but a thin sheet of mist clung to the air. Renee couldn’t make out the
path down the hill. Sam and Lil were right behind her. Sam had grabbed Renee by the
arm and was trying to bring her back to the hotel. And suddenly Jamie was there.
“Get your hands off her,” he’d said. “Get your hands off her right now.” And
Renee remembered that Sam hadn’t.
“There was an accident last night, Renee,” he said.


