If something concludes without ever beginning, does it even
exist at all? Or can something that never was still somehow
cease to be? Can something only have an ending?
This story is not a story. It is but the briefest of thoughts,
an unexpected, creative spark. The simple product of one free
and impassioned night. Of penetrating thoughts releasing towards
a receptive mind, and of a planting of words upon fertile white
space. It was the smallest sliver of a idea that flared up only
to be forthrightly snuffed out. An exercise in exploration, and
nothing more. It has no continuation, no hope for finality or
resolution, and will never grow into anything more. It exists
only as a tiny testament unto itself, a concept without
conception.
But is a story that isn’t told still a story, or does its
completion alone qualify its existence? Does its unwritten
nature mean that it never was, and do the thoughts that
formulate it count for nothing if it fails to reach fruition? Is
this story’s existence nullified?
Maybe.
Would this even count as a story at all? Stories have
characters. They have plots and settings, themes and meaning.
This has none of those. It’s just you and me, reader and writer,
conversing in this ambiguous empty womb.
If this fleeting idea had been given time to mature, however,
and its grasping tendrils granted a chance to stretch out and
fully take root, would it have become something more? Do we
limit the formation of these narrative elements to our conscious
mind and active involvement? Or rather, do we understand that
with time and attention, with nurturing, contemplative care and
the safe spaces we afford them, stories often blossom and grow
on their own. Is it different for all of us? How many times have
your breakthroughs and answered questions arrived through
dreams?
This story is not a story. We can decide it’s not. Pull the
plug that leeches our mental space and energy and banish its
existence from our minds. It’s our mind, after all. We are the
writers. We preside, decide, and we pronounce total judgment.
But as we presume to sit as gods, determining which inklings we
let live, and which ones die, how do we judge? By merit?
Convenience? Potential or practicality? Could this beleaguered
little glimmer have been allowed to continue if it had only been
able to prove its worth? Did it possess some inherent,
unredeemable defect…or was it just a bad time?
And as we convict the ideas we find unfit, do we dispel them so
completely as to wipe away the totality of their existence
entirely? Do we truly harbor that power? Why do so many
unworthy, unwanted ghosts still lurk in the depths and corners
of our minds, whispering of disembodied scenes and broken facets
of our minds, whispering of disembodied scenes and brokenUntitled
facets
of inspiration?
Every life has a story, but does every story have a life?
It depends on the definitions, and what we view life to be. But
at some point, both life and stories must traverse across the
line of existence and reality. We all must somehow reach the
state of being alive. Can we trace that event back gradually
until it’s tiny enough to be considered nothing? Or is there
still some small but definitive blip in the time-line that
suggests life has begun? A moment when we realize that this idea
in our mind is there, and is developing into a story.
If we look at ourselves, we can see these developing stories
manifest clearly. Whether heroic or villainous, adventurous or
seemingly mundane, long and arduous or regretfully brief. Each
of these stories is one of a kind. They’re uniquely our own, and
even when these stories are cut tragically and shockingly short,
it cannot be denied that their life’s story still existed. But
if they’re cut off does that make them any less of a unique and
exclusive story? What about when they’re ended so early as to
never even have started? Can the core concept of a story be
considered not living? Is pre-life and unalive the same?
Every story has a life, but will every life have a story?
That’s up to us to decide.
This story has become a story. After all, stories have
characters. They have plots and settings, themes and meaning.
This now has those things. Did I not evoke the image of you and
This now has those things. Did I not evoke the image of you
and me, reader and writer, conversing in this ambiguous empty womb.
It may not be a very good story, but can its existence be denied
as anything other than what it is?
This story is a story, but it will never be told. Its allotted
time is over, the night is at its end, and the time for its
destruction draws near. Plenty of other projects and commitments
scream for attention, loudly competing for priority in our
already over-swamped minds, and this story has no voice.
This story is not a story, and therefore will be given no
name. It will forever remain as it never was: Untitled.
Incomplete. Unfinished. Yet over. Ended. Terminated. A
paradoxical legacy.
How are we and our beloved projects any different from what
this could’ve been, save that we were given a chance to live and
grow and to scream our stories in the light of day? How are we
different, save that we at least had a chapter one?

The End

4


