It is late in the evening in Quito. The city lights climb skyward in all directions before
disappearing into the clouds. Frigid air tumbles down the surrounding mountains. A fiveyear-old boy is walking down Amazonas Avenue toward the heart of the city. His feet
hurt. His name is Paco, but his friends call him Paquito. His mom used to call him that,
too. The man he is walking with calls him Paquete.
He passes the bullfighting arena coated with a fresh layer of orange paint. In a few
weeks, in celebration of the founding of Quito, the gates will open and the matadors will
arrive with great fanfare, wearing vests with sparkling trim. Everyone will converge on
this normally quiet street corner: hat vendors, musicians, drunks, tourists, drunk tourists.
There will be either raucous cheers when the bull, already dying, is finished off after
putting up a courageous fight, or gasps from the audience when a bullfighter is impaled
by a thrashing horn. Paco is looking forward to this weeklong celebration. He won’t have
to walk so far.
The streets are treacherous at night. They can also be dangerous during the day as
overfilled buses weave through jammed lanes, scouring the crumbling curbs for the
stranded, but this danger is obvious and the crowds of people ambling about on the
sidewalks know better than to stray into the streets. At night, the barren roads are as
duplicitous as a river that’s calm on the surface but hides dangerous undertows below.
Cars can appear out of nowhere, swerving wildly about the lanes. If a collision appears
imminent, drivers don’t slow down but instead tap their horns in fair warning. Paco
worries because he is invisible.
Of course he knows this is not completely true. The man he is walking with sees
him and watches closely to make sure he doesn’t wander away. And of course the people
in the cars can probably see him; they are just not aware of him. Paco blends into the
landscape, no more significant than a lamppost. He walks among other invisibles:
emaciated dogs, waifish old ladies, men with missing limbs. Paco can see them all and he
smiles as he passes them, because though he is invisible, he is much luckier than they are.
“Paquete!” his companion snaps. “Remember your mother.”
At the next corner a pair of teenage boys races out into the middle of the street
when a few obedient cars stop at a red light. One boy juggles three grey tennis balls while
the other somersaults between the juggler’s legs and then jumps to his feet smiling and
clapping his hands between the flying balls in a comic attempt to distract his partner. The
acrobat climbs atop the juggler’s shoulders, and one by one intercepts the balls until he is
now the juggler, though he lacks the control of his partner. A ball falls to the ground
before the light turns green, and the boy leaps off his partner’s shoulders and scrambles to
fetch it. Despite the error, the boys still grin and take a bow. A lady in a fuming Mazda
lets a wrinkled bill flutter out her window, and the boys pounce on the money before it
floats away.
While jugglers and acrobats are entertaining, Paco dreams one day of pouring
gasoline in his mouth and spitting it over a lighter’s flame, producing a glamorous
fireball. These teenage fire-spitters are magnificent like dragons and inspire the most
awe—and tips—from spectators. There are other performers Paco admires, like this
toothless man sitting on the bench playing his rondador. He blows out a familiar tune—
El Chulla Quiteño. It’s the only song he ever plays, but people don’t seem to notice or
care. A few golden and silver coins lie scattered in the warped hat at his side. Paco
wishes he could produce these peculiar, birdlike sounds, but he has no rondador. He
pauses to listen and smiles at the performer before being slapped by the man he’s been
walking with. His face stings. He is not supposed to smile. The rondador player notices
none of this because Paco is invisible to him, too.
Nearby, a woman wearing a dark felt hat over her long, braided black hair stoops
over a garbage can, poking through trash with a snapped piece of rebar. She is invisible.
Paco can tell because of the indigenous disguise she wears. She murmurs a song in a
voice that he finds familiar, and he pauses mid-step to catch another view of her face. Her
coarse, craquelured skin, imperceptible lips, and toothless mouth are ultimately foreign to
him, and he’s disappointed.
The woman, not finding anything worthwhile, moves on with a tortured limp to fish
through the next can. She seems ancient, but a man once revealed to Paco that working
the streets adds ten years to one’s age. This idea excites Paco. If it is true, his days of
spitting fire are not so distant.
Paco’s feet are swelling, and now he is thirsty. The man tugs at his arm, pulling him

to continue as they approach Carolina Park. In a vast city of lights, it is two kilometers of
terrifying darkness. Paco has heard stories of children walking into the park and never
appearing again. They pass the vivarium with the fat, fanged snake painted on the wall.
He imagines the snakes escaping their cages at night to roam the park, and he worries an
anaconda will slither by, crush his bones, and devour him. Mysterious noises scatter then
converge, and he hears rustling in the grass and overhead. He races ahead of his
companion, eager to return to the light. In the near distance he sees the pyramidal hotel
with blocks of light stepping down from its point and casting a glow on the palm trees
lined below in an orderly row. The grass is manicured and the sidewalks smooth, and
after ten kilometers of walking, Paco knows he is close.
A blister opens up between his toes, but the pain is distant. The churning in his
stomach is all he notices. His lips are dry and crusty. The aroma of roasted chicken,
pizza, shawarmas, and other foreign smells are ripe in the air. He licks his lips.
They approach La Mariscal, an area filled with swank restaurants, active bars,
nightclubs, and drunken revelers. The man points at a young couple seated at a table
outside an Arabian hookah bar. He stuffs two packets of gum and a package of cigarettes
in Paco’s coat pocket and pushes the boy in their direction.
Paco nears the couple’s table. They’re speaking a language he doesn’t understand,
but he expects this. At this time of night, everyone in La Mariscal is a foreigner. The
young woman has glossy brown hair and a trimmed rose tucked behind her ear, but the
man transfixes Paco. He has never seen a man with such orange hair, and it seems as if
fire pours out of the man’s nose and drips from his ears and mouth down his chin and
neck. Paco straightens his posture, pulls out a pack of cigarettes and approaches. The man

-4-

PAQUETE

sees him and nods. Paco pounds the pack into the palm of his hand, flips the lid open and
partially lifts out a single cigarette. The man takes it and puts it in his mouth, letting it
bounce about his lips. Paco offers a lighter, holding it out like a gentleman, and cups his
hand around the flame, waiting for the man to draw in the fire and puff out a ball of
smoke.
“Cincuenta centavos,” Paco says, holding out his hand.
The fiery man gives him a dollar, and Paco fights back a smile. He pulls out the
pack of gum and places it on the table. The foreigners shake their heads and divert their
attention away from him. They’re silent while they wait for him to disappear. He doesn’t
leave but instead takes a small step backwards, clasps his hands behind his back, and
stands attentively until someone finds his eyes again. Finally, the woman glances at Paco
but mumbles something to the fiery man. Paco listens, scavenging for familiar words.
“Okay,” the man says. His fingers dance over the gum, and he contorts his face and
twitches his bushy eyebrows.
“Don’t tease him,” the woman says.
“I’m not teasing him. I’m deciding.” He scratches his flaming chin and curls the
tips of his mustache. He makes his ears dance up and down.
Paco can’t hold the giggle back and it fizzes from his lips like soda from a shaken
bottle. He covers his mouth, hoping his companion watching him from the street corner
does not see his laughter.
The fiery man searches his wallet. “All I have is a twenty. You have a dollar?” he
asks the woman who shakes her head. He puts his wallet away.
Paco slumps his shoulders. He wonders if a careless remnant of a smile still lingers

-5-

PAQUETE

on his face, and he pushes his lower lip upward to exaggerate a frown. He tries to
remember his mother, but the thoughts are dry.
The woman removes an apple from her purse and offers it. Paco tentatively accepts
it but doesn’t know whether to eat it there or wait. He decides it’s safer to put it in his
pocket.
“He’s still there,” the woman says a few moments later. She sucks in a puff of the
hookah’s smoke and sighs as a halo of vapor swarms around her head. She passes the
hose to the fiery man, who sets aside his cigarette and takes a puff. He closes his eyes
while the flavorful smoke inhabits his body.
The woman places presses her fingers to her scalp, stretching the skin on her
forehead. She looks to Paco, whose legs are now shaking. “My God, look at his foot! It’s
bleeding through his shoe!”
“What do you want to do about it?” the man asks. “Do you have a spare shoe?”
“Just give him something,” the woman says as she pushes her chair away from the
table. She grabs her purse and disappears inside the bar.
A mouth and teeth appear between the flames as the man smiles warmly at Paco.
“Niño, no mas. I’m sorry. No mas. Tus manos, por favor.”
Paco holds out his hands and squeezes his eyes, hoping to force something out of
them. The fiery man returns the package of gum into Paco’s hands.
Feeling empty and betrayed by the indispositions of his heart, Paco leaves the patio
of the hookah bar and returns to the street corner where his companion has been spying
him. He gives the man the dollar but can’t keep his other hand from crawling about his
pocket. Paco’s fingernails dig into the apple until they’re moist with juice. When he pulls

-6-

PAQUETE

out his hand and lifts it to his mouth to lick his fingers, the man grabs Paco’s wrist and
stops him. The man snatches the apple from the coat pocket and turns it over in his hand,
inspecting it. He holds it out, but only to tease the boy, because when Paco reaches for it,
the man yanks it away and hurls it against the wall. The mushy remains slide to the
ground. Paco begins to cry. Before the tears dry, the man pushes his little package to the
next location, the patio of a ritzy restaurant at the edge of the main plaza.

Paco stumbles over his feet as he shuffles towards the restaurant. He can’t stop the tears.
The apple was his. He simply wanted a taste. Now, he may never know how the fruit of a
wealthy foreigner compares to the fruit he normally eats. Perhaps the young woman’s
apple held luxurious, exotic flavors. He rubs his eyes with his forearm, smearing the
grimy tears across his face.
The giant windows that comprise two walls of the restaurant offer a glittering view
of the kings and queens inside. Even the waiters wear fancy white jackets and black bow
ties. Everything inside sparkles: the silverware, the wineglasses, the teeth, the eyes. The
faces of the women gleam and their ears and necks twinkle in the candlelight. Outside the
door, armed security guards stand at attention to stop unapproved people from entering.
No one is invisible to these men. Nevertheless, they seem uninterested in protecting the
guests who sit at the tables on the restaurant’s patio.
Even though the patio is crowded—every table and seat is taken—Paco knows
exactly where to go. He’ll sell to anyone who beckons him over, but it’s always the
smiling couples he approaches first.

-7-

PAQUETE

The woman has a ghostly white, doughy face and a plump nose. Her lips are achiote
red and her auburn hair spirals down the side of her face like rusty coils. The tears are
still flowing as he pulls out his tiny package from his coat pocket. He’s trying to do his
job, to be professional, but his arm trembles as he holds his hand out to offer a cigarette.
The doughy-faced woman’s expression flutters briefly to shock before returning to her
smile. She looks into her purse, opens her wallet and removes a bill. Paco fumbles
through his coat pocket for his lighter while she places the bill in his other hand, closing
his fingers around both the bill and cigarette. She wraps both of her hands around his tiny
fist and holds them there for a while. Finally, she lets go, smiles, and taps his hand twice
more before returning to her conversation with the silver-haired man. The woman doesn’t
tell him how much change she expects. She doesn’t seem to expect change at all.
Paco opens his hand and looks at the bill. He knows his numbers, both one and five,
and understands he’s received a lot of money. The bearded man pictured on the fivedollar bill looks like no man he’s ever known or seen, but he seems to be looking proudly
back at Paco.
In an instant, Paco feels like he is expanding from his chest, growing to twice his
size. He sprints back toward the man to show off his earnings but comes to a sudden stop
midway when he realizes something important. He forgot to give the woman her
cigarette. They are neither thieves nor beggars, the man has reminded him many times.
They are workers. Paco hurries back toward the plaza, his eyes wide with panic. The
woman is watching him with squinted eyes. Her smile is gone. He’s cheated her, he
knows.

-8-

PAQUETE

He reaches the table, bows meekly, and offers the cigarette. She laughs and shakes
her head. He insists. Doesn’t she remember she just made this purchase? He holds it out
again and puts it on the table. Finally, she nods and takes it. He notices her red-stained
wine glass and the empty bottle on the table and wonders if her mind is dancing with
angels. That would explain her forgetfulness.
He nods politely before spinning around and running back to the man. The fivedollar bill is in his coat pocket, his fingers wrapped firmly around it. Feeling like a king
holding such a large bill, he presents it to his companion who buys him a stick of roasted
corn and gives him twenty-five cents from his pocket. It’s the first time Paco has been
able to keep money for himself. Now, he’s a true worker. He smiles briefly before
returning to his normal face. Deep down, though, he is happy.

The flood of affluent locals and foreigners into La Mariscal begins. The clubs awaken,
pulsating with bass tones and flashing lights, enticing throngs of partiers to swarm to the
sound. Sweeping over the streets in waves, they arrive from the homes and apartments
surrounding the Catholic University to the north and Central University to the south.
They weave between taxicabs, which wade slowly through the streets waiting to rescue
the older tourists looking to escape. For over an hour, people continuously flow down
from the hills, flushed from the quiet, surrounding streets and emptied into the estuary of
Amazonas Avenue. Paco goes back to work, selling single cigarettes to people escaping
the sweltering heat of the clubs. But tonight, these sweaty people are stingy and pay no
more than fifty cents per cigarette. They love to bargain.

-9-

PAQUETE

The man decides to give up just after midnight. His little cloth sack is full of
Sacagawea dollar coins and silky dollar bills so worn and infinitely crumpled they feel
soft and smooth like silk.
“We’re going to the palace,” he says, handing Paco the bag of money. “You carry
this. It’s safer with you.”
Paco is tired and limps to avoid putting pressure on his throbbing right foot. His left
foot has been hurting, too, but another thing the man has taught him is that greater pain
erases lesser pain. Paco is happy to be going to the palace. It’s closer than walking home.
From a distance, the rough, cobblestone road leading up to the palace looks like an
avalanche of rocks spilled from the mountain, slicing through the neighborhood. The road
is so narrow and steep the buses don’t dare to climb it, and sometimes, even taxis drop
their customers off at the base of the hill rather than attempt the ascent. Tonight, Paco’s
legs are fighting him and he takes the man’s hand. As they near the summit he sees men
with untucked shirts and unzipped pants dancing with their angels, singing songs of
devotion, and twirling their invisible beauties up and down the steep slope of the cobbled
road until they finally collapse.
The palace is three stories high and still growing according to Jesus, the fat,
mustached man who manages the flow of guests. Strands of rebar sprout upward from the
corners of the palace’s roof like rusty flower stems. Light bleeds through the thin,
carmine curtains of several rooms on the second and third floor of the palace. Ghostly
silhouettes duck and lurch in and out of view. No matter the time of day or night, there is
always someone awake inside.

- 10 -

PAQUETE

“A busy night,” the man says to the palace guard who stands at attention in front of
the heavily dented metal door. The guard’s uniform is a large bomber jacket and baggy
fatigue pants. The loose clothes disguise his slender physique, and he looks otherworldly
under the violet neon light framing the doorway. The light casts a mystic glow against the
lime green concrete walls.
The guard smiles at the man and says, “Three dollars for a bed. Three to Jesus.
Three for the girl. Maybe some extra for me.”
The man pulls out his empty pockets and shows them.
The guard laughs. He touches his forefinger to his chin. “Of course, if you’re only
visiting your sister, then it’s free.” The guard steps forward and hugs the man. Then he
steps aside and permits them to enter.
Inside the palace, Jesus is sitting on a tan, punctured sofa that always smells of
smoke. He’s watching the grainy black and white screen of a tiny television resting atop a
flimsy wooden table. He stands when he sees the man. Jesus lifts his shirt and pulls out
the handgun tucked into his pants. He points it at the doorway and says, “Pow, pow!”
Laughing mischievously, he gives the gun to the man. “Don’t worry. No problems
tonight.”
“Can you watch my Paquete while I go upstairs to see my sister? Five minutes.”
“You’re eating into my break,” Jesus says.
“Five minutes,” the man says. He leans toward Paco as if about to hug him, but
instead, he reaches into Paco’s coat and takes the bag of money. He tousles Paco’s sticky
hair and smiles before disappearing down the hall and up the rickety staircase.
Jesus collapses onto the sofa. He taps the cushion. “Come here, Paco.”

- 11 -

PAQUETE

Paco pulls himself onto the sofa and leans his head into Jesus’s soft belly. Together
they watch the television. Paco tries to concentrate on the moving images and the frantic
squeals of the gray woman as she races back and forth across the screen, her hands to her
head. Paco finds the colorless world boring. His eyelids tremble before surrendering
completely under the weight of exhaustion.

When he reopens his eyes, he’s alone on the sofa. He’s worried the man has forgotten
him. And Jesus? There’s no one in the lobby. If someone comes in, how will he know
where to send them? Who will collect the money? Since there is no one else, the
responsibility has become his.
A long counter, the last vestige of the palace’s days as a hotel, hides in the shadows
at the opposite end of the room. Above the counter, frayed wires poke through the ceiling
like wilted vines, a reminder of where the light fixtures used to be. The counter’s face is
missing several of its ivory-colored tiles, and many of the remaining tiles are either
cracked or stained. No one ever stands behind the counter anymore. Not even Jesus. Its
only function seems to be to hide the crates of Pilsener beer, but even then, all the visitors
know of the stash. Perhaps because they can’t see it, they aren’t tempted to swipe any.
Paco goes over to the counter and prepares to assume his duty by standing behind it.
It’s the only way someone his age can demonstrate authority. Strolling about the lobby,
he’s just a lost kid. Behind the counter, he will be somebody. There’s only one problem,
he quickly discovers. He can’t see over the counter and won’t know when people arrive.
He returns to the front of the counter and leans suavely against the tiles, his legs crossed

- 12 -

PAQUETE

and his hands tucked in his pockets. He must look authoritative. He glances at his feet
and the little toes peeking out through the canvas of his shoe. This doesn’t look
professional. He quickly hides again behind the counter, but this time he formulates a
plan.
He carefully empties one of the yellow crates of its beer bottles and tips it over. The
plastic crate makes a perfect stool, and when he stands atop it, he can just barely see over
the counter. If he nudges his head up slightly his chin can rest on the grainy surface.
Now, he appears officious, and he surveys his lobby awaiting a visitor from the outside or
from the upper floors. His expression is necessarily serious.
After a few minutes, he decides standing on the crate is not comfortable. His legs
are wanting to dance. He has to pee. He has to move. But he can’t leave his lobby
unattended. He hops off the crate and dances. This helps a little. He mimics the dance
with the angels that he’s seen the man perform many times. As he cavorts about the small
area behind the counter, he accidentally taps one of the beer bottles resting on the floor. It
falls over, clanks, and rolls harmlessly a few feet from the other bottles. Fortunately, it
does not break.
The accident proves to be inspiring. Grabbing two bottles, one in each hand, Paco
climbs the stool and hoists the heavy bottles onto the countertop. He arranges them
carefully before hopping down to fetch two more. In La Mariscal, he has seen men
behind counters serving beer to customers and receiving money for it. The man will be so
proud of him. He continues to retrieve the bottles, arranging them in a neat row on the
counter but leaving an opening for him to peer through. He takes the last two bottles, but

- 13 -

PAQUETE

when he climbs his stool, a woman is standing on the other side of the counter. Her hair is
in a bun and two giant, golden loops hang from each ear.
“Un dolar,” Paco says. “Cerveza es un dolar.”
“Paquito, mi amor,” the woman says, reaching over the counter to pinch Paco’s
cheek. “One dollar for each of these big bottles? You’ll sell out so quickly. Are you the
little bartender?”
How does she know his name, he wonders. Paco pushes one of the beers forward,
but the woman pushes it back.
“I’ve smelled enough beer today,” she says. “Are you here by yourself?”
Paco nods. He suddenly becomes very hot and sweaty all over. He’s doing a poor
job. The woman joins Paco behind the counter. She puts her hands on her meaty hips and
looks at Paco disapprovingly. “Do you remember me?” she asks.
He shakes his head. He’s so worried, even his ankles are sweating. There’s nothing
he can do to stop this woman.
She undoes her bun and lets her hair fall to her shoulders. “Now?” she asks.
Maybe she looks familiar. He’s not sure.
She comes over to him and lifts him by his underarms off the crate. She sets him
down and looks him over again. “We have to get you out of those pants,” she says.
Paco drops his eyes and is immediately aware that there’s a problem. He nods.
She takes him by the hand and leads him away from the counter. He knows she’ll take
him to her room and embarrass him. He’s ashamed.

- 14 -

PAQUETE

At this moment, the man enters the lobby from the hallway. The first thing he
notices is the line of beer bottles on the countertop. Then he looks at Paco. Then at Paco’s
pants and the long, dark streak of urine running down the fabric.
“He had a little accident,” the woman says.
“And so you offer to get him out of his pants. Haven’t you done that enough
tonight?” the man says.
“Que barbaro!” she says. “You leave this poor boy alone when he needed to use
the bathroom.”
“Then he should have used the bathroom. Where’s Jesus?” he asks, looking around
the lobby.
“Jesus? You want to blame Jesus? This is not Jesus’s responsibility.”
“I’m not the boy’s father. Do I have to show him how to piss? He can go outside.
There are a hundred walls to piss on out there. Even a dog has better sense.”
She tugs at Paco’s hand. “Come on, Paquito.”
There is one bathroom on each floor of the palace, but the one on the ground level
no longer functions, and like all the other rooms on first floor, is padlocked shut. The
woman leads Paco into the cramped stairwell. The man is close behind, his hand on
Paco’s back. The wooden steps vary in height, and the three of them stumble up the
stairs.
On the second floor, Paco hears the familiar, scattered moans and groans of men
and women in devout prayer behind their closed doors. The bathroom, which services all
the rooms on the floor, is at the end of the hall. Its door hangs loosely on its hinges and

- 15 -

PAQUETE

has no lock. Regular visitors to the palace know to hum or sing softly while on the toilet
to let others know the bathroom is occupied. Sometimes that works.
Tonight, it’s unoccupied and the woman pushes open the door. The bathroom has a
large pedestal sink, a shower head that dangles precariously from the wall, and a toilet
with a cracked and chipped seat cover. The wastebasket is overflowing with used toilet
paper, and the smell of feces overwhelms the vanilla scent of a fragrant candle atop the
sink.
“Take off your pants,” the man says.
Paco refuses and he thrusts his hands into his pockets, searching for his coin.
“Paquito, mi amor, you have to let me wash your pants,” the woman says. She holds
a thin bar of grimy soap.
The man grabs Paco’s right arm and forces the closed fist out of the pocket. Not
wanting to lose his coin, Paco refuses to help. The man violently unbuttons the single
button and pulls the zipper. He yanks the pants down. Paco lifts his leg one at a time to
help the man slip the pants off.
“The boy is stupid sometimes,” the man says. “Why do I have to undress you?
You’re a worker. You should know how to do such a simple thing.”
“He’s embarrassed,” the woman says.
The man stares at Paco’s face, and Paco can feel him reading his eyes.
“He’s not embarrassed. He’s greedy.” He lifts Paco so they see eye-to-eye. “You
don’t want to give up your coin, do you? We’re going to have to pay to dry your pants.
How much, sister? Twenty-five cents?”

- 16 -

PAQUETE

“More or less.” The woman is already running cold water over the pants—there’s
no hot water in the palace—and she scrubs the bar of soap furiously on both the inside
and outside of the pant legs.
“Whose pants are those?” the man asks Paco.
“Mine.”
“Who should pay to dry them?”
Paco drops his head.
The woman rinses the pants of the soap and turns off the water. “I had a man
tonight,” she says. “He’s famous. Anita took a photo of him…and me. He’s a politician, I
think. A rich one.”
“Paquete, are you going to give me your coin now?” the man asks
“I think this man will pay to keep his secret.”
The man spins and charges toward the woman with a clenched fist. “You’re going
to blackmail him? Not only are you a whore, but you are a filthy thief. How dare you!”
“It’s an opportunity.”
The man pulls his gun from his waste and presses the barrel against the woman’s
head. “And I have an opportunity to pull this trigger and take every dollar you have. Is
that what it has come to? Brother stealing from sister? We are that greedy?”
“That gun has no bullets.”
The man’s face turns red, and the veins on his neck pulsate. He pulls the trigger. A
harmless click.
He turns back to Paco and seizes the boy’s arm.
Paco opens his fist and gladly surrenders the coin.

- 17 -


