On Sunday evening, I find myself at a party. “Whose party is this?” I ask the man
who hands me a gray flute of champagne.
“Why, it’s your party. This party is for you!” he tells me, then turns and whispers
a joke or a story into his lady’s ear.
I discover that the party marks the seven-year anniversary of my residence in New
York, which would have easily passed unnoted had no one reminded me. I do not keep
calendars in the apartment because they make me anxious in the same way it makes me
anxious to look out my window and see treetops moving in a wind I cannot feel. I had no
sense of when the first year ended, the second, fifth, and now, it appears, seventh. My
progression in life has been measured by far less discrete understandings of time. It is
mostly a question of how many months pass before I notice the gravity of shifting eras
tugging at my skin and hair.
I do not know who threw this party, which person owns enough calendars to keep
track of someone else’s banal milestones in conjunction with theirs (or perhaps they
camouflage their own existential panic in the erosion of other lives). It seems ridiculous
to question other guests for the identity of the orchestrator. I look around and see many
people with elusive names and the most abstract of involvements in my story. I can only
place solid identities with ten or so of the voices and hands reaching out to
congratulate me. An old professor in casual dress, a miniature legion of classmates from
graduate school who laugh and refill each other’s glasses, a single co-worker getting
drunk, a friend wearing lipstick and looking regretful, and someone I’ve slept with.
They circle me, bizarrely reverent, and toast many times. “To health!” “To life!”
“To the Big Apple!” “To you, our dear friend!” I take small sips in between toasts and so
does everyone except my co-worker, who seizes glass after glass, and disappears to the
bathroom to vomit, and emerges thirsty.
“Hey, tell us how you came to this great city!” someone prompts. They try not to
embarrass me by pointing out what a quiet affair this is, how disjointedly the characters
in attendance fit into conversation, with no memories or futures in common. “Tell us
why you moved,” the room echoes.
What a strange question to ask, and stranger to answer. What kind of response
does it demand? I have no idea. Where should I start? How can I tell them any truth,
knowing it to be a question inspired not by interest but by desperation? Caught between a
rock and a hard place, the palms of impropriety. One will strike me for refusing to answer
the question; the other will strike me for boring a room with a story that no one really
wants to hear.
Well, I eventually have to begin; you all know that I came here from the Midwest.
The state, much less the town, does not beg further specification. To these people of the
city, that faraway, flat, and unassuming region is the same boring landscape repeated
manifold; they could no sooner distinguish between two different species of potato as
distinguish between the state of Illinois or the state of Indiana. The “Midwest” is all it
takes to conjure up as detailed an image as they will ever need, one of the few American
stereotypes that touches on truth. Everyone follows my introduction with waxy nods; in
their eyes stretch sun baked fields of corn, slow forests of windmills, stocky men in
overalls chewing wheat and boasting prize pigs.
The more naturally I feel classified under the label of “New Yorker” (a privilege
earned by accruing these oft-unmarked anniversaries of residence; in short, enduring time
and nothing more or less) the more acutely I feel shamed by my neighbors’ attitude
toward the land that raised me. The stubborn plateaus, dense with crops and ankle-deep
circles of murky water, versus the cityscape of New York, so alive every minute with
music and friction: the contrast is hysterical. To me, the casual superiority radiant in my
peers, nursing their urban callouses with their entitlement to the world, is justified. So I
will not venerate the things I knew before I traveled East, but I will not let them know
that I am compromising the story.
I stayed in the same public school system through elementary, middle, high
school, I continue. Silently, I remember watching, every year, the same people shedding
their youth. Each day our skins of optimism and innocence flaked away, exposing
underneath shells of inhibition and apathy. It was a disease – and eventually I convinced
myself that it was fostered in the flatland around me, allowed to spread and germinate
ruthlessly because it was so unimpeded by its habitat. No hills, no mountains, only a
smooth runway into the horizon in every direction, a flat topography peopled by a flat
culture that could not bother to build immunity. I felt sick, and I was sick of the
engulfing sameness. I was not a revolutionary, so I told no one – I only left.
I’ve paused, and pick the story up again: through elementary, middle, high
school…but I decided to come to New York for college, because I wanted to see the city,
and I wanted a change. Really, I sought a cure, a pulse, something to reverse the process I
believed was turning my limbs, mind, and spirit necrotic.
I see they want to laugh: it’s a party. I have no jokes to tell; all I have are thoughts
that have amused me just before sleep or while turning street corners alone, nothing I
have tested on an audience, nothing that has proven itself capable of retaining its humor
when published. I will invent.
Let me tell you: I hear myself. Let me tell you! The moment I knew I had to come
to New York – the moment I thought, I have to get out of here – I was underneath the
bleachers, because you know, all those public high schools, they always have bleachers. I
was kissing somebody and clothes started to come off. It was after a game – a football
game, these public high schools are so invested in their football games, and teams. So it
was getting dark and everyone had left. We were taking our clothes off – I was undoing a
button, or a zipper, and my hands were shaking. And where I put my hand next – I didn’t
feel skin, and I pulled back, and it was a cornhusk! A cornhusk had fallen into my hands.
That’s when I told myself, I have to leave, or I will be swallowed.

Alien
	  

It’s a good story, and I’m happy to see everyone smiling, some laughing with
their mouths open and teeth showing. I recall the presence of my sometimes-lover, and
we come inches within looking at one another. But now they’re asking, How about when
you came? How was your first year in the big city? And I have to think of more answers.
The first year was scary, I tell them. What a weak adjective – and nothing like
how I remember it. The first year was running and running and never breathing, the weak
feeling after surpassingly strenuous exercise as if your bones are hollow, walking against
a wind so strong it pulls skin from skeleton. I was too overwhelmed by the city, too
hypersensitive to its novelty, and I hated it. I wanted to feel organic, to move through its
spaces and secrets as though I possessed them. I wanted my feet to meet the pavement
with the surety of seed returning to soil. Now, engraved seven years deep into the paths
of New York I have since walked, it seems ridiculous to talk about this.
So instead I say: it was scary, but it was a lot of fun.
They’ve exhausted the foremost layer of inanity, but they’re still scared to look at
one another, because we are all strangers in this room, fragmented islands, and the space
around and between us might as well be flooded with miles of ocean for the absence of
tensions and histories separating us.
The graduate school classmates are remembering things about me now. Hey,
weren’t you quite the party maker back in the day? Didn’t you plan Sheila’s You Got
Hired! party and Tim, who couldn’t make it – his You Got Fired! party? Didn’t you used
to hit up three different liquor stores in town because they set limits on how much booze
you could buy? Didn’t you used to get on the table and dance, dance, dance? Didn’t you
go to class with a hangover all those times? Didn’t you once fit so many blunts in your
mouth that you got lockjaw?
Their memories of me go on and on and on. I try to look embarrassed, as if the
person they describe who so lawlessly pursued thrills still belongs to me. I would forget
to hold these spectacular moral failings as elements of my past, either treasured or
suppressed, if I were not hearing of them secondhand. They are scenes from a movie I
saw as a teenager, something someone told me to be at an impressionable moment, not
real to me.
As time regurgitates itself upon the ears of every guest, I look up and find my old
professor’s stare. Why did you come here? I want to know. To hear these tales,
delighted, sordid, roiling? Are they of interest? How perverse! Are you ashamed of me?
How patronizing! He has maybe helped himself to too much champagne, and it spills
onto his vest, and I feel disgust, and remember holding my undergraduate diploma and
being seized with a vicious wish to burn it to ash. Four years of these seven passed. And I
will work on an eighth and it will be two sets of pointless fours. The math of it gives me a
headache. What a wasteful education.

Alien
	  

A hand grabs at mine, lips lie at my ear: I am so sorry to leave. My co-worker
reaches the door before I can reply. I smell in the trail left between us desperation purged
and imagine that when I look into my bathroom next, I will find a configuration of bottles
holding bits of soul. Who thought to invite you? They don’t even know you.
My friend reaches over and folds me into her scent. She is not glad she came, and
will not say so, but she stays nonetheless. “Congratulations, darling, congratulations –
seven years in New York! That is something, that is really something. Remember when
we met in this city? It must have been your second, third, year… someone spilled coffee
on someone else in Lower Manhattan and someone bought someone a coffee to make up
for it. Who was whom, which was which? Is that really even how we met? Does it matter
anymore?” She confuses one story with another, me with another friend, because we
were never close, and she is here to drink as much as she is to congratulate me. We
graduated next to one another, but the last time I saw her was nearly a year ago, when we
walked down Barrow eating pastries together, and ended up in a store wallpapered with
fetish garters and vibrators, and like children incapable of understanding we had a
swordfight with dildos until the greasy cashier asked us to buy or leave, buy or leave, so
we left and ran out underneath a green neon sign that read The Pink Pussycat. Maybe
she’s recalling the same thing as her fingers close around my wrist and hold tight – if she
lets go she will lose me, in the way of New York.
I begin to wonder if anyone has invited one of my neighbors, if any of them are
here. Neighbors are the quintessential strangers of the city, but haven’t I lived here long
enough that one or two might show up? That’s seven years I’ve listened to your morning
routine in the bathroom, slamming the medicine cabinet and the toilet seat and the shower
curtain, with my pillow pressing frustrated sleep to my ear. That’s seven years your
ethnic cooking experiments have forged a malodorous path into my living room. Oh, the
conversations I could have with my neighbors, back and forth, about the cubist way
we’ve come to know one another. Perhaps if I step onto the balcony I will find one
standing on the next ledge, so I shake my friend away and move through the door, look
around to see if I might be so lucky. I am not.
From this suspended concrete the view of the street is distorted and the party has
faded. I am delighted by the cold air rushing into me and its reminder that when they all
leave, I will be once again alone. How has it been seven years? Of coffee lines and food
carts and ambulance sirens, of sewage puddles and steaming grates, of subway nymphs
turning tricks, of my own reflection rippling between windows, of passing terrifyingly
gorgeous people and young homeless artists and always avoiding eye contact, of dreams
tasting like traffic and graffiti…
The moment I decided to come to New York I was standing at the edge of a
cornfield, where stalks tall enough to blind me moved open and closed in the wind. When
they opened I could see a foot-wide path carved by delinquent pioneers: carpeted in
cigarettes, bottles, used condoms, unused condoms (the stories those could tell!), empty
husks, cores of fruits, the glint of lost jewelry and virginities catching the sun like broken
glass resolutely buried. This is the story of this place. I could not stand it. I imagined

Alien
	  

that if I stepped through the swaying curtain the magnitude of adventures and aspirations
deferred would generate an enormous earthquake that would rip the field and this world
in half down the seam of its littered avenue, and all the detritus would fall into the chasm
and I would follow and so would everything else I knew of it. The institutional schools
where no one ever learned anything – the interstate museums filled with unhistorical
items – tractors and barns and livestock and whole orchards – swallowed, and me with
it. Fight or flight, fight or flight – I could be consumed or I could run as far as I could
imagine, so I flew.
My lover’s shoulder touches mine and I am no longer alone. We breathe together
awhile. “I’m remembering seven years,” I say. “Do you have a cigarette?” Before long
we have filled the air around us with clouds, swirly and thick with sentiment.
“I can’t believe they threw a party for me,” I say, but even as the words leave they
are lies. We both know. This party is not for me. If I return, they will not know me – they
are not here for me. I am no longer welcome in the room I have left, a room filled with
seven years, and friends who are strangers, and I turn around and my lover is gone and all
that remains is the smoky silhouette of the apathy we reveled in together. Behind me they
continue to laugh and toast. I cannot go back. It is not my party.
Seven years, seven years. Fight or flight. I finish the cigarette and watch it tumble
to the street, carried on its ash and ember like a dying rocket into the screeching ocean
beneath. There is no other choice – I mount the balcony and dive after it.
	  


