A friend is coming to dinner. A friend is coming to dinner and a friend is coming to
dinner. And because this is a story (I assure you this is a story) you will ask me, whose
friend? Her friend. For a while he will call himself my friend, and for a while I will think
of him as my friend (though I never say it out loud, my friend) but that thought will prove
to be wrong. I will be proved wrong.

A friend is coming to dinner and I am supposed to cook but I am walking the dog. I
care for the dog, I live with the dog, at least twice a day I go out with the dog to the sandy
hill behind our little in-law apartment. I am walking the dog and I am walking the dog, I
am hiking with the dog. He is her dog, she got him from the pound before we met, but now
he is my dog, our dog. The dog is black and the dog is lean and the dog is full of life and
the dog runs back and forth whipping his long tail, his lips stretched back in a grin. I chase
him, I chase the lean, black dog back and forth on the sandy hill behind my little in-law
apartment where the short scrubby pines have dropped their bed of needles. I chase the dog
round and round with a stick in his mouth and I would never take being called a dog as an
insult, and I would never resent the notion that men are dogs. Men are not dogs. This dog
is better than all men. This dog is better than all women. This dog chews himself to
bleeding and this dog runs in pure explosive energy and this dog lays back his ears and
arches his eyebrows at me when I admonish him. This dog licks people in the face and this
dog is magnanimous to all people with whom he comes into contact and this dog would
never betray me. This dog will howl long and mournful when I leave the house with the
last of my things.
A friend is coming to dinner and he is an actor, and she is an actor, they have been
acting together. They have been acting and she has been directing also, she has been his
director, she has been directing him. Together, they are coming to dinner, after they are
done rehearsing, together. They have been rehearsing a play, a play wherein the
protagonist is portrayed by a different actor in each scene. She is bringing her friend to
dinner and he is an actor and he plays a main role in the play she directs, the play my wife
directs.
To be an actor is to perform convincingly, is to lie so convincingly that you fool
yourself and fool yourself so much that you fool your audience into feeling. You have to
fool your audience into feeling and feeling until he laughs or he cries. I am not an actor, I
am a writer, I write stories. I write and I write and I write, but I don’t act, I write and I lie. I
write and I compose, I compose these stories out of lies and truth, I mash them together
like meatloaf, I bake them until I can’t tell one from the other. My stories are composed of
things that happened and things that didn’t happen, things that might have happened,
things that could have happened if the other things had happened first. I lie and lie on the
page, all my writing is clever lies, white lies, lies to make the reader feel, I lie to make the
reader happy he has read my lies. But I do not lie to the reader’s face, I am not an actor, I
wear my heart on my sleeve, I show the truth on my face, the story I tell is on my face. I
am not comfortable on stage, I am not comfortable lying convincingly to the face of an
audience.
They are actors, he and she, and they have been acting together, that is how they
met, acting, acting for each other, acting for audiences, acting for me, acting before me. I

have gone to many performances, many times they have performed for me, she has
performed before me many times. Him not so many, but I remember the first time I saw
him perform. His hair white in the stage light, his tensed hand reaching towards me from
the black hole of the sleeve of a black and glossy trench coat. He did not know me then,
and he would not have been the friend she would have brought to dinner if at that time she
were to bring a friend. But he is the friend she is bringing now.

A friend is coming to dinner, and he is a man, and he has thin yellow hair and he
has broad shoulders and big hands, and he has lines beside his mouth, beside the developed
muscles of his embouchure. Her friend is coming and the bridge of his nose is as hard as a
wooden cross and his eyes are the blue of a falcon’s and he smells like whiskey and
tobacco, he smells like sweat, he smells like a train station. But until now I have only
smelled him briefly while embracing, while hugging we have only touched briefly.

She is bringing her friend here, to our house. This little in-law, high up on the hill
with a wide view of the city and out to the grey ocean and the bridges over the bay, this is
my house, and it is the dog’s house, and it is her house, and it is our house. Our names are
both on the lease, though not the dog’s. Our names are together on many pieces of paper,
many documents, most of them filed in my house, in her house. But when a friend is
coming to dinner you don’t think that, you don’t think about all the papers you have
signed, of how many documents pair your name with hers. You don’t think about your
names side-by-side, because it doesn’t matter so much, not that way.
Another way your names are paired is when friends say your two names together.

3

Natural History

Friends and family say your names knitted with an ampersand, hyphenated, runtogether.
Friends introduce you as your runtogether names soandso, youandyou, so even from the
beginning sometimes friends know you as soandso, youandyou. That matters more than
signs, more than names one above the other on checks.
Her friend is coming to dinner, she is bringing her friend, her. She has short straight
hair like muddy grass and she is thin and reedy and her skin is pale and I can see the purple
veins under the translucent skin of her stomach, above her murky fen of hair. I can roll
over in bed and see her as she rises from our bed. I have seen her rising naked from bed or
getting naked into bed almost every day, nearly every day since we were married, and
before that too, before we went to the courthouse and signed our names.
&
A friend is coming to dinner and I am cooking.
I am cooking and I am cooking and I am cooking. I am cooking things such as
swiss chard, I am steaming the chard, lightly I steam it, not too much, turning the leaves by
hand in the steam, just until they are warmed, just until the leaves are warmed but have not
lost their shape, just their taste of earth. I am cooking rice and I am roasting the rice in oil
with diced onion and crushed garlic and I roast the rice until it starts to brown and the scent
of roasted rice rises to me like steam. I am cooking and the stove is covered with steaming
pots and the oven is baking and the refrigerator is running and the cell phone is sizzling in
the coins in the dish and the little apartment is full of cooking and heating and working and
steam is dripping down the windows that face the night, the sulfur street lights in the
condensation like moldering stars.
A friend is coming to dinner and I am cooking for him, for this friend, her friend,

4

Natural History

and for her. And myself. I am also cooking for myself. I always forget that part.
&
We are eating. I am eating and she is eating and he is eating. The dog is not eating,
he is sleeping and groaning, but we are eating. Plates full of chard, broad green leaves and
blood-red stalks, mounds of golden rice, chicken soaked in sweet teriyaki. But, the chard,
oh the chard!
She brought him here to eat. She drove him here in my car her car our car, and now
he is eating and she is eating in my house, in her house. I have cooked for them and me, I
have cooked for us. Now I am eating and they are eating. He’s eating with a fork
deliberately and she is eating without looking at her plate.
“I love chard!” I say, taking the long red stem in my fingers, folding the entire leaf
into my mouth, crunching crunching until it’s all gone, stem, everything.
“I haven’t ever tried it,” he says, looking dubiously at his plate, looking at his plate
and looking at her. He is wearing his faded jeans and his old tennis shoes and his plain
white t-shirt, by way of saying he doesn’t care about appearances, by way of appearing he
doesn’t care.
We are talking and eating. He is asking me absently what I am writing. I am saying
something about plots, I am describing convoluted plots. I am trying to tell him how I tell a
story, how I shape it. I am trying to tell him how I try to manipulate the reader, how I lie to
the reader, how I tell him white lies. I am eating the food I cooked for the three of us, and I
am trying to tell him about lying, and I am enjoying it. I am enjoying it quite a lot. I am
thinking and thinking, I am enjoying this. The dog is whimpering in his sleep, his paws
twitching, his pointed ears askew. She leans and touches his head and he stirs and quiets

5

Natural History

and rolls his brown-shot eyes up to look at her, his eyebrows lifting.
It is dark in the house, my house, her house. It is dark in her house, dim, she’s
turned down the lights. And we are eating in the dim, and we are eating and we are eating
and we are drinking in the dim. In the dim we are drinking wine and drinking wine and
drinking wine. We are drinking wine and eating the food I prepared and drinking liquor.
We are drinking whiskey and whiskey and whiskey. We are drinking in the dim, and her
eyes are growing big and black in the dim and she is not looking at me but she says:
“It’s really good. You always make such good food,” she says without looking, as
if her eyes are glass, black glass, taxidermy button eyes with the candle flame on the table
in them like the pupil of a cat, a predatory cat, a panther poised on a branch at the natural
history museum, muscles strung under dusty skin, but something not quite right, something
not quite natural in the way the limbs were placed, the tilt of the head, the glass of the eyes,
the gaping mouth, the pink tongue dry as old bubble gum, something missing. Her sign is
Leo.
His sign is whatever. He is sitting and sitting and not eating and drinking and
waiting and waiting. He is waiting for the next line, the next beat, he is watching the
moments progress towards something inevitable, something totally unexpected.
I drank but I am not drunk. I am finishing what is on my plate, chewing and
chewing and my gut is tensing while I chew the stringy chard stalks. I am feeling full, too
full, this house is full, our house is full up with the dim, with the fluid dark, the loose and
fluid shadows where she floats, where he floats. Where I float, there is a current passing
through the darkness, a sick buzzing. She is floating in it, she is appearing at ease, she is
affecting the loosening of drink. Her pupils are wide and dark in the dim. She is drunk as a

6

Natural History

skunk, she is drunk as a drunkard, she is drunk as she drinks to be.
I am not drunk but everything is hard to hear, what she is saying is hard to hear, as
though we are under water, as though her mouth is muffled by the dark. She is asking
something, she is asking something in a muffled husky voice, and in what she is asking are
the words make love. She asks not looking at me, still not looking at me, looking at him
with her glass eyes black with flame, and she is asking and she is asking but who is she
asking? I think she should be asking me, I think I am the one one should ask, but she is not
looking at me, she is looking at him, and looking at him and looking at him.
I start to stand up, and I stand up and I stand up, trying to get my bearings, trying to
feel the floor, and I need something to do so I start to clear the plates. I stack the plates, the
ceramic tapping of the plates, and I lift the plates and I start to carry them to the kitchen.
And now I am out from between them, I am no longer something between them. I am on
the other side of the table, our little round table, the first furniture we bought, my table, her
table. I am on the other side of the table and I look at her and she starts to move. She starts
to move and she starts to move closer like a zombie taxidermy panther on the prowl,
nostrils flaring out and in. She is moving towards him with her glass eyes always on him as
though to pounce, as though he will try to get away. I am standing on the other side of the
table and I am holding the plates and I have said nothing, nothing definitive at all, but was
she asking me, all the time she was asking, was she?
And I’m thinking and thinking and thinking of the day at the courthouse, the two of
us at the courthouse under the plastic arbor beside the cubicle wall, she and I facing each
other, the clerk reading the vows we selected from the laminated binder and our family
members sitting in office chairs and leaning against desks, trying not to disturb the mugs

7

Natural History

bristling with pencils, the dinosaur toys strategically balanced on computer monitors. Our
family is there watching quietly in the back of the court clerk’s office while she and I
repeat what the clerk reads, while we are looking into each other’s eyes, while we are
looking and looking at each other even as we say the words and put the rings on our ring
fingers, and then we pull close, we draw close to each other and our bodies touch, there in
front of this clerk and our family, the feeling of our bodies touching though there is my suit
coat and her satin dress between our skins, and we close our eyes as we kiss. The feeling of
touching, our lips pressing together hard, me holding her and she holding me, as though we
can say how much we love by how hard we hold. We close our eyes and we hold each
other and kiss and there is the sound of applause, our family clapping.
I can’t stop thinking and thinking because of how she is looking. She is looking,
not at me, at him, she won’t stop looking while she is stalking. She is stalking and stalking
towards him and she is kneeling and stalking, so slowly, until suddenly she leaps. Like that
she leaps and clamps her mouth onto his mouth and each puts his or her arms around the
other, and they close their eyes.
I put down the plates.
There’s the single clap of the plates tapping as I put them down and the dog is
whimpering in his sleep and I’m saying to myself and saying to myself not in so many
words that this is what a modern uncontrolling open unthreatened unashamed unafraid
secure self-reliant unconditionally-loving (not a male chauvinist) husband would do.
So I put my hands on his shoulders.
&
We are fucking. We are fucking and we are fucking and we are fucking in the

8

Natural History

bedroom, him, her, me. She has dragged the heavy organic-cotton-and-cedar dog bed out
of here and now the dog lies whining and whining and whining in the other room. Big
black dog alone in the other room while we are fucking. We are fucking and we are
fucking. Him in me and me in her and her on him and him behind her and him in her and
me over her and her against me and him against me. We are fucking, I know we’re
fucking, because she doesn’t use the words make love anymore, just the one time as she
stalked across the table, across the floor. I know we’re fucking because now she says:
“Fuck me, fuck me,” breathlessly,
while I’m plunging into her, plunging and plunging, like I’m trying to unplug
something, like I’m trying to suck something out of her, not feeling pleased, not pleasure,
like I’m punching down into her but never hitting, never hitting anything, always missing,
while she says fuck me fuck me.
Her eyes are the same glass and her stomach is folded where she’s turned up her
hips and her mouth is open and empty except for the words fuck me. He is hovering around
like a bad dream after waking, like a twitching muscle after running, like the quiet after the
dog stops whining. The dog is whining in the other room. Pounding and pounding, me and
her, her flesh slapping my flesh slapping, in my house, her house, my room, her room, and
he is there watching in my house and I pull out and sperm thick and white on her stomach,
like I was marking her, like marking territory, the same black glass and indefinable
territory, like the steamed window glass where the street lights flower.
&
She leaves the room to wash herself. He lies back. The heat in the room is of a fire
at coals, no flame. I push down what is circling never resting in my stomach and lie down

9

Natural History

beside him with my head on his chest as if he were my father, his hairy chest like my
father, curling pale hairs. She comes back into the gloom of the humid room.
“I love women,” he says through his chest buzzing in my ear, “I love men.”
But his act is no longer lying convincingly, he does not convince me. Because later
I will be lying here in this bed and I will know where she is and who she is with, I will
know even if I don’t want to know, and I will be saying I love you over the phone, late in
the night when she is not home, when I am alone in this bed at home, and she will not
reply, she will not answer with words. So I have begun to stop believing now, I have begun
to stop believing in this story, this story of love in this room where we were fucking.
&
She comes back to bed and we are fucking again, fucking fucking fucking. He is
behind her and she is backing towards him in some dance of estrus, of heat, and I am in
front of her and I am against her but she is not touching me, I want her to put her mouth all
over me, I want her to slaver all over me but she is not touching me. He is behind her and
he is not looking at her or me, he is looking at where he is going in her. And she is saying
something, she is moving her lips as though she is saying something, but something I can’t
understand, except the words my dream. I think she is saying my dream, her eyes rolling
under her lids. She is not touching me, and I know what she means to mean which is him
and me and her together is her dream, and I know what she really means because she is not
touching me and the dog is whining whining whining out a warning. Then he sits back on
his haunches and jets white all over my bedspread, her bedspread, a red bedspread, a
wedding gift, holding himself, holding himself apart.
&

10

Natural History

We are lying together, she on one side of me, he on the other side of me, me the
body between them. I am lying there inert between them, my arm under her neck, his head
on my shoulder. I am lying there face up to the ceiling, I am naked lying there face up. We
are quiet now and we are not fucking, no more fucking, so on our skin there is a distance.
There is a distance on our skin, the electricity that drew us together, the force like
magnetism that has brought her and me and him together in my house, in her house, in my
bed, in her bed, now it is there on our skin, a repellent force like magnets of similar poles,
held close but still apart. There is a tiny but perceptible distance between our separate
skins.
“I had a dream about a woman we know,” I say. This by way of revenge. This by
way of saying to her that I let you bring him in, into our house, our bed, I let it happen, I
gave permission, I’m in control, there are others to whom I can go, for satisfaction, you’re
not the only one who could have lovers.
“I don’t dream of her, or her,” he says to me, “I dream of you.” He looks at me in
the low light and crawls over me while I look at him, stoic behind my passive face, while
thinking, You are lying. You are lying I think at him, he leaning over me, his eyes
half-lidded, the dog groaning in quiet perpetual torpor, he leans down and puts his rubbery
lips to mine, and I leave my eyes open looking at his creased forehead in the low light
while he kisses me but I say nothing, just lie there unmoving, the two of them on either
side of me, the body between them, the two of them lying against me, both of them, both
against me, lying.
&
I am rising early. I am rising early from her bed. From my bed. There is a fog in at

11

Natural History

my house, her house, our little rooms on the hill above the sea. A dense fog is in and it is
up against the windows, pressed as if packed into all available space. The world is full of
things, things pressing, things taking space, what little space I occupy, pressing me like
toothpaste from the tube.
I am rising early and she is sleeping. She is still sleeping while I am rising, she is a
lump under the blankets, under the red bedspread, not stirring, not stirring while I rise and
dress in the fog, her short hair like a tuft of broken hay. I am rising and she lies
undisturbed. Her sleep is what she loves and her sleep is undisturbed as she lies alone in
our bed, our wide hard futon bed, wide enough to hold five, six people, who knows? We
are just beginning to learn how many our bed will hold.
I rise and dress and leave the room for work. He is in the living room and he is
reading, reading my book, not her book, not his book, mine. He is reading my book and
sitting on the couch, sitting bent over, sitting as though he might simply lean and then
begin to sprint.
I am leaving for work and heading for the door and I say, “That’s a good book,” as
I pass, “You should read it.” By way of saying that’s the only way you’ll know me.
“Give me a hug,” he says, and I won’t refuse because I still believe something
about her, I still believe that only sometimes, only occasionally, only onceinawhile does
she look that way at him. So I hug him shortly and he puts down the book and he will leave
it there and never read it, and likewise he will offer me a book to read but I too will refuse
it, saying, “I can’t, really, too much to read for school already,” by way of saying I have no
time to read into you further, I’ve already begun to see the way the chips are falling. And
she doesn’t read at all. She doesn’t read what I write or what I read, or what he reads. She

12

Natural History

only reads what she writes, she only reads as she writes in her private hidden journals.
And I don’t want to think it, I don’t want to think it at all, but in three months I’m
leaving, I’m telling him what I think of him over the phone, and he’s saying

you have no

fucking idea what I’m about, and by now I don’t want to know. He has his story, and she
has her story, and I have my story. I’ve begun to compose this story about leaving, leaving
behind my house, my dog. I’m composing while I’m leaving and taking a few things, my
books and clothes, and she is keeping, she is keeping her bed and her table and chairs and
her little in-law rooms and her dog, oh our dog, my dog, oh the dog howling and howling
and howling as I leave, as I’m leaving the little house on the hill looking out into the fog
over the sea.

13


