Moises Garcia Gonzales' eyes filled with tears as he watched his pregnant wife step from
the shower and gently dab dry her impossibly large belly.
Catching his gaze, Maria smiled. "Officer Gonzales, could it be that you are more
emotional about your first baby than the mama?"
"Si," he sighed, buttoning the cuffs of his police uniform. "And now I must go to the
Tijuana precinct, and scrape together one or two pesos to support a wife and new baby.
Maria walked over to him and kissed him on the cheek. "Being an officer might not pay
a lot, Moises, but it is noble work and I am really proud of you." She stepped back, looking him
up and down.
"What?" he said, feeling self-conscious as he stood bare below the waist in front of his
wife . Although she was naked, he felt that he should be dressed at this moment, and he regretted
his life-long habit of putting his pants on last.
"Hmm..." she said, clasping her hands together and resting her forearms on her stomach
like it was a judge's bench. "I think it is time to tell you, Moises," she said, looking at him. She
took in a long breath. "I have gold. As much gold as I ever dreamed of."
He smiled. "Yeah, right. Just where is this gold, Maria?"
She raised her forefinger in the air and shook it at him. And then, to his surprise, his
wife, heavy with child, did a full pirouette. It was as breathtaking as watching an elephant in a
circus turn on one leg, lumbering, precarious, and heartrending. After completing a wobbly
circle, she stopped and faced him. Smiling, she pointed to his heart.
He grinned and pulled her close. Her mid-section lodged between them like a beach ball.
"If you say so," he said, resting his forehead on her shoulder before moving down into the
mysterious cavern between her full breasts until he was able to kiss the bone hardness at the top
of her protruding stomach. Then, unmistakably, the baby shifted its whole weight under his lips.
Moises sat alone on the backseat of the dark blue ‘Policia Federal’ four-door pick-up as it
sped down the narrow dirt road toward Our Lady of Guadalupe Elementary School. As the truck
swerved sharply off the road and stopped short at the end of the school's pock-marked
playground, his small-boned 22-year-old frame was flung hard into the side door.
His distant cousin, Captain Carlos Fernando Felix Fuentes, stepped out of the police
truck's front passenger side, waving away a cloud of dust with the muzzle of his assault rifle. "I
curse the whore of Tijuana in July," he said, breathing hard. Sweat dripped down his temples
and heavy jowls. He reached into his pant's pocket and pulled out a handkerchief. After wiping
off his forehead and neck, he wadded the material in his fist and shined the three gold stars on
the epaulets on each shoulder.
Months earlier, Carlos had been appointed La Coahuila District Precinct Chief, to the
pride of everyone in the family, and they were further delighted when Carlos brought in Moises
as his personal auxiliary sergeant. Everyone was happy, especially Moises. He had always
looked up to Carlos, and for the first time in his life, he had a real job. Carlos was fifteen years
older, and Moises' first memories of his cousin were of pranks involving strangleholds and
punches that always hurt a little, but still made him glad for the special attention.
Before he shut his door, Carlos leaned down to talk to the driver. “Don’t take a nap,
Jorge. The gringos gave you that new AK-47 to shoot bad guys. Keep it cocked, and in your
hands. Be alert. Protect me like you would your own dick. No more. No less.”
Jorge Salazar, a muscular officer, with sharp cheekbones and expressionless eyes,
nodded, “You can count on me, Captain."
Moises jumped out of the pick-up's raised backseat and hit the ground hard, losing his
balance. He jumped to his feet, hoping Carlos didn't see.
But no luck. Carlos was looking straight at him, chuckling and shaking his head. "What
about you, Moises?" he asked. "Are you with me, or against me."
"Sure. With you," said Moises, steadying himself against the side of the truck .
“Not exactly the posse I dreamed of,” Carlos mumbled, slamming his car door. He
placed the butt of his AK47 snugly under his arm pit, and fingering the trigger, he walked toward
the 7-foot cyclone fence that surrounded the school's dilapidated playground and field.
Moises followed, and stopped next to him at the fence. Neither spoke as they stared at
the empty field. Carlos took in a deep breath, and sighed. "I feel that I've got to tell you
something, primo. You've been doing such good work here, bringing in these groups of boys, I
just feel you should know something."
Moises looked at him. "What?"
"These kids aren't going to a soccer boarding school. I thought you would have caught
on by now. Do you really think the Tijuana Cartel would be sponsoring a soccer team of nineyear-olds?"
"What do you mean?" Moises' voice caught in his throat."Where are they going?"
"Oh it's still nice. They're going on luxury cruises to the Bahamas with rich gringos."
Moises was confused.
"Hundreds of gringos can't wait to spend thousands of dollars on one of these week-long
luxury cruises to the Bahamas to enjoy basking in the sun with these soft-skinned boys. They
can't wait to get their hands on them." He shook his head and laughed. "The gringos even have
a nice name for it: man/boy love."
Moises started to feel sick, and rested his head on his fists as he gripped the cyclone
fence.
Carlos seemed to be getting more excited. "This is El Capo's most successful operation.
The Tijuana Cartel is making millions, and the American doctor behind it all is swimming in
greenbacks, too." Grinning, he looked at Carlos. "And, hey, we're not going to be looking too
shabby at the ATM, either."
Moises studied the crumbling brick facade of the school.
Carlos shaded his eyes. "They should be letting the students out for afternoon recess in
about fifteen minutes, right Moises? It's a beautiful day for the children to play outside, don't
you think?"
Moises' heart was pounding. He didn't want to hear this. Although he had helped lure
dozens of boys from schoolyards, he had not asked questions, and always told himself that he
was doing it so that the boys could go to wealthy soccer schools established by wealthy
Americans, including some who probably owned soccer teams around the world. Now, he knew
he had been fooling himself.
"Listen, Moises," Carlos said, more soberly, "I don't like kidnapping kids, anymore than
you do, but it is a job that needs to be done. And, I should add: it is a lucrative job that needs to
be done.
"Carlos..."
"It's Captain to you, as to every other officer," Carlos said, staring at him coldly.
"Anyway, CAP-TAIN..." Moises continued.
Carlos glared.
"What if I don't want to do the dirty work for the Tijuana family? What if I wonder what
will happen to these kids when they grow out of their beautiful little-boy bodies? What if I don't

Page 4

want to be part of this. And what happens with the families when they find out their little son or
grandson is missing....?"
Carlos interrupted him. "Oh, yeah, that. Well...we can't have angry parents protesting
across Mexico...." He looked down at his boots. "So, anyway, we have to take care of that."
Moises thought he knew what Carlos meant, and stared at him. He took in a deep shaky
breath. "Are you trying to tell me that you kill off the boys' families...??"'
"Not the whole families, for god's sake," Carlos said gruffly. "Just the parents. These are
just little kids. We can't have them crying to go home to their mama's. These kids are not slaves
on those ships. The gringos want the boys to be enjoying themselves on the cruises, too.
Anyway, no boy will be begging to go home to mama, if he knows there is no mama to go home
to." Carlos put his hand on Moises' shoulder and squeezed. ""Get with it, oh holy one. These
are the facts: El Capo wants it. The gringo wants it. And there are hundreds of other rich
gringos who want it. This business is making the Tijuana Cartel more money than all of the
drugs that have been smuggled into the States since the Incas. And through our work here, we
are earning positions in the the Tijuana family, just like that, Moises. Every other cartel will lie
under us like prostitutes. Some day we will fry the Zeta's livers with onions and feed them to our
children for the iron."
Moises felt a dark curtain coming down over him. He was suffocating.
Carlos' grip tightened on Moises' shoulder, and he looked at him hard. "For one thing,
you're lucky you don't have to do any of the killing. I made sure of that. And I've assigned one
police officer, Jorge, to be there just to make sure it doesn't get too violent. He's going to take
photos to show the boys that their parents are dead. And remember, Moises, these boys will
have lives that they wouldn't even dream of in the armpits of Tijuana. They will be enjoying
those luxury trips to the Bahamas, too. What mom or dad wouldn't give their own lives to give
their sons such a chance?" He shook his head. Beads of perspiration ran down his face.
Moises looked at him, trying to keep his lips from quivering. "Carlos..." he said.
"Carlos...I just..."
"I swear to God, Moises. If we didn't share a blood connection, I would be proud to cut
off your mamby pamby head and carry it to El Capo myself." He lifted his grip on Moises'
shoulder and wiped his forehead with the back of his hand, leaving a streak of dirt. "You know
what? Sometimes I curse the God who planted your seed in my mother's cousin's daughter."

Page 5

Moises turned and stared at the school. His knuckles turned white as his fingers
tightened around the links in the fence. "These boys come with us because they trust us, Carlos.
And then we just turn on them...."
"Dios Mio!" said Carlos, raising his hands in the air. "The kids don't know it's us, who are
doing the killing! Getting rid of the families is just a necessary evil in a successful business. It's
not like you are a virgin to the success, either. Both El Capo and the gringo glow when they talk
about how good you are with the kids. There is something about your sweet baby face that
works every time." He reached into his pocket and pulled out his handkerchief. "They're too
young to see the difference between innocence and stupidity, I guess," he said, wiping his cheeks
and neck. "Doesn't matter. El Capo is talking about giving you a little house and a white Grand
Marquis after we bring in these last boys. These three will make thirty-four in all, El Capo's age,
and his magic number." He kicked the fence. "Damn it! I'll bet you get your car, before I do!"

Moises stared straight ahead. He felt as though his face had been chiseled out of a piece of
stone. Still, he felt a little thrill when he imagined What it would be like if Maria and him and
the baby had their own little house. That was something so far away it had never been a dream,
even.
Carlos studied him. "Wait a second... is that a little smile that I see on your mamby-pamby
face? Is it the new house that got you smiling, Moises? Or...is it the image of driving into San
Diego in the sparkling white Marquis, with Maria leaning up against you, thinking you are the
best looking rich man in Mexico, her lips and other parts wet with love?"
Moises' grinned sadly, and shook his head. "Fuck you, Carlos."
Carlos laughed, and patted Moises on the back. "Now that's the Moises I know and
missed! So are we together again on this one, primo? You'll do your Piped Piper magic with
these three nice boys and give them a better life with the Americans?"
"Okay, Carlos," Moises nodded, and half-raised his fists in the air, pantomiming a tired
boxer.
The shrill recess bell rang, and dozens of laughing boys and girls poured out of the
double-doors at the back of the the school. The girls wore navy-plaid pinafores, and sky-blue
blouses, and the boys had complementary light blue dress shirts, dark blue pants, and plaid ties.
"Wait a minute, let me get myself presentable for the children," said Carlos. He patted

Page 6

down the wrinkles on the front of his uniform shirt and tucked it in more tightly over his flabby
waist. Then, taking off his hard-billed precinct chief's cap, he ran his fingers through each side
of his thinning hair, and put the cap back on at a slightly cocky angle. "O.k., I'm ready," he said
smiling. "We have come at a good time, Moises. It seems that all of the fourth graders are at
recess, and the best-looking nine and ten-year-olds are coming right toward us to play soccer.
Who do you see, Moises?”
“No one, really,” said Moises, looking out over the playground. “There is a sea of
children out there. The question is not ‘Who do I see?’, but, ‘Who do I not see?’
“That’s very poetic,” said Carlos, turning to look at Moises, “but, it is not what I am
looking for.” He put his hand on Moises’ shoulder. “Now, Officer Gonzales,” he said, slowly, as
though speaking to a child, “I..will.. ask.. you.. again: “Who.. do.. you.. see?
Moises shrugged off Carlos' hand, and continued to look through the fence at the children
running and playing, their screams high and shrill. “I see the son of Juanita Ramos, who sells
tacos every day at the Plaza de la Constitucion."
“Isn’t she the widow of one of the cowards from Las Familias who was kidnapped from
the Zocalo last year? I heard they cried like babies when they were questioned, and when they
were beheaded, their blood was light, almost pink."
Moises gripped the links in the fence, and kicked the dry clods of dirt at his feet. He
clenched his fists tighter around the metal, fighting the urge to slug Carlos in the temple exposed
by the jaunty tilt of his cap. "It was never proven that those four were members of Las
Familias."
“What was that, Moises?” Carlos asked. “The children were laughing so loud, I couldn’t
hear you. Which one is the Ramos boy, and what is his first name? That is all I want to hear
from you right now, Moises, period."
Moises neck felt stiff as he nodded toward one end of the playground where a group of
boys were playing soccer. “Javier,” he said. "He’s the one kicking the ball.”
“Ah, yes,” Fuentes said, smiling. “The good-looking one leading the other good-looking
boys. He is perfect. A gringo's dream. Who else do you see?”
“Jesus Diaz, the son of the bakers’ downtown. He is running right behind Javier.”
“You mean the Diaz Bakery, makers of the driest bread in Tijuana, and tortillas that have
the texture of an old woman's you know what?" Carlos smiled. "Suddenly I feel better about
carrying-out El Capo's orders. Who else do you see?"
“Juan Soros."
“Perfect!" Carlos laughed. "None other than the son of Jorge Gomez Soros, the prick who
slashed El Capo's nephew's neck last year over the whore they both loved. El Capo asked that

Page 7

we bring back the Soros boy in this last operation. This is going to be a very good day, Moises.
A very good day, indeed." He patted Moises on the back. “Don’t be so glum. Imagine it is a
week from now, when it's all over." He put his hand on his brow to shade his eyes as he watched
the boys play soccer. We will be driving our bonuses soon, Moises, I promise you.”
Moises stared out at the children in the field, trying to imagine himself dead.
"Hola, Javier!” Carlos called out. "Javier Ramos!"
A handsome boy, with flawless skin, bright eyes, and an eager smile looked over at the
officers standing behind the fence.
“Come here!” yelled Carlos, “and bring Jesus and Juan with you!"
“Jesus, Juan!" Javier screamed to the two boys who were running with the ball. "Aqui!”
motioned, as he ran toward the officers.
The high pitch of Javier's voice was like a bolt of lightening piercing Moises' brain.
Javier arrived at the fence, panting.
“Fast and good footwork, Señor Ramos," Carlos said. "Let’s just wait a second for your
friends to come. I have some very exciting news to share with the three of you.”
"O.k." Javier said, smiling and nodding. Jesus and Juan ran up and stood on each side of
Javier at the fence. All three looked at Carlos and Moises eagerly.
“Well, boys,” Carlos said. “I have very very good news. Yesterday, a soccer scout, an
Americano, came into the police station. He said that he had been watching all of you boys
playing soccer at recess here at Our Lady of Guadalupe, and he was most impressed by you
three. In fact, he wants to bring you to America to become soccer stars, and he came to me at the
police station to see if that would be all right. Of course, I said, 'Yes', because I want the best for
our most talented boys in Tijuana, and I know that when you're making millions of dollars, you
will want to send a lot of it back to Tijuana, to your mother, and to help the city. Right?
"Si, si," said Javier, nodding and smiling.
"And we just talked to your parents. You can imagine how happy they are. But the most
important question, is this: ‘Do you really want it?’
“Si! Si!” the boys screamed, jumping up and down.
“Well, then,” said Carlos, chuckling. “Let’s just help you climb over this fence. It's a
waste of time to go back through the school yard. Besides, the last time I talked to your
principal....Sister….Sister...”.
“Sister Robertina!” the boys cried out.
“Ah, yes, Sister Robertina,” Carlos said. “The last time I checked in with Sister

Page 8

Robertina, soccer success was not at the top of her list of dreams for you three boys, and she
would want you to return to school after recess, instead of going with us to meet the Americano.
But you are almost ten now, and able to make your own decisions. What would you like to do?”
"Meet the Americano!” said Javier.
Jesus and Juan nodded. "Yes, The Americano!"
“O.k., then, let me and Officer Gonzales, here, help you over this fence, right now.
Javier started up the fence first, and when he got to the top, and Moises reached up and
carried his small frame over the fence, easily.
“Great!" said Carlos. “Now, the next two soccer stars."
Jesus climbed to the top quickly, and Moises reached up and lifted him over.
Juan stayed on the other side, looking hesitant.
Carlos put his arm lightly around Javier's shoulders, and when the boy looked up at him,
Carlos nodded toward Juan.
"Come on, Juan!" Javier said. "Come with us!"
Juan smiled at his friend, and started climbing the fence, and as Carlos and Moises
reached up to help him down, Carlos whispered, "Javier is good-looking and smart. There might
be an extra bonus for that."
Once the three were on the other side of the fence, Carlos tucked his AK-47 under one
arm and said, “Now, kids, let’s walk very quickly, run, even.” He grabbed Javier's hand and
started jogging.
Moises took Juan's and Jesus' hands and ran next to him. He looked back at the school
and saw a flash of black. "Look back at the field, quick," he said under his breath.
Panting hard, Carlos turned toward the playground. "Well, would you get a load of that!"
he hissed. "We have the Fuckin' Flying Nun on our tail." He started running faster, pulling
Javier, wide-eyed, behind him. "Let's Run Faster, Everyone! Fast!”
"Thank God, she's not within hearing distance," muttered Carlos. "Her long frock is in
our favor, too."
Before they turned the corner, Moises and Carlos looked back at the school. An elderly
nun in a long black habit, was running across the field, waving her arms, her mouth open as
though she was shouting, although Moises could not hear a thing.
"Damn, she's really clipping along for an old goat," said Carlos.
"Out of hearing distance, out of mind; out of mind, into peace." said Moises, breathing
hard, pulling Juan and Jesus along after him.
Carlos, sweat dripping down his face as he lumbered along, looked at Moises . "Oh my,

Page 9

that was perfectly lovely, Officer Gonzales!" he said, in a high voice. "Might one call it p-o-e-tr-y?"
Moises smiled.
Always the' Poet," said Carlos, shaking his head. "Dios Mios, what did I do to deserve
the Officer Poet?"
The big-wheeled 4x4 police truck was waiting close to the road, the engine running.
"Wow!" said Javier.
"O.K." said Carlos, breathing hard as he opened the second door of the pick-up.
"Officer Gonzales will be sitting in the back with you three, and I'll sit up front with Officer
Salazar, our driver."
Moises lifted the boys into the backseat, and Carlos ran to the front passenger side,
jumped-in and slammed the door. He took a quick look at the four in the backseat and then
turned to Jorge. "Vamos!"
The truck screeched and picked up speed so fast, it alarmed Moises, and he could feel the
muscles in Juan's thin shoulders tense-up as he leaned into him.
“Seat-belts! And engage the doors' child-safety locks, Officer Gonzales,” Carlos said, as
they speeded down the dirt road. "Watch the speed, Officer Salazar. We have precious cargo
here. Future soccer stars!" He looked over his shoulder, and winked and smiled at Moises and
the boys.
Moises did not smile back.
After they had gone a few miles, Carlos opened the glove compartment, and pulled-out
three iPod Nanos in florescent green, blue, and orange, with matching florescent ear-buds
dangling from each. “O.K., young winners” he said turning to the three boys in the backseat.
"The Americano bought these gifts for you." He handed each of them a shiny iPod. “I’ve already
downloaded the top 100 American top hits for you.
The boys grinned and stared down at the iPods in their hands.
“Go ahead, put in the earphones,” Carlos said. "Officer Gonzales will help you." He
looked at Moises.
"Of course," said Moises, turning to help Juan untangle the wires on his ear-buds.
“The little ‘x’ button on the iPod is the volume," said Carlos, still turned to the backseat.
"Keep pushing it until it’s really loud. The Americans always play their music really loud.”
Javier, put in his earphones, first. Then, Jesus, and Juan. When all three of the boys
were humming to the music, Carlos smiled, and turned to Jorge. “I've got to go to straight to the
station, now," he said, under his breath. "There are a few goody-two-shoes officers who have
been looking at me a little funny in the last couple of weeks. To have our cover blown now

Page 10

would not only cost us the deal, it would cost us our lives."
Jorge stared ahead at the road, looking grim. "Can't you arrest those officers, and torture
some kind of 'confession' out of them, like you did in the past?"
"I can only get away with my 'torture to truth' technique with new officers. The three
men I'm most worried about have been with the Coahuila Street Station long before I arrived as
its Precinct Chief. The trouble is, not only have these three officers earned the respect and trust
of the other non-compliant officers, they're smart. Long before the human rights groups started
questioning my 'techniques' for rooting out corrupt officers, these three moral dick-heads had
questions of their own about my 'methods', and, one by one, in their fucking noble manner, they
set up one-on-one 'meetings' to share their concerns."
Carlos sighed. "So unfortunately, I can't torture them, or fire them. And I can't promote
them, of course, and move them even closer to my operations. They are fucking thorns in my
side, until they are 'killed in the line of duty', which will be the first thing I bring up with El Capo
after this operation is over, I can promise you that."
"I'm Glad You Came! I'm Glad You Came!" Juan sang out from the the back seat.
Carlos jumped a little in his seat, and then grinned at Jorge. "It's a new hit song in
America, by the group "The Wanted". I like it a lot, myself. For the last two weeks, I've been
listening to the music that the gringo downloaded on the kids' iPods. Very catchy. He has good
taste. I even got an iPod on eBay for my son, and downloaded the same music. Pepino loves it,
and listens to that thing, 24/7. And, on those rare occasions when I can get his attention, he
doesn't give me that god-damned attitude. That, alone was worth the hours I spent trying to win
a single auction on eBay."
"I'm talking too much, about nothing," Carlos said, yawning. "After you drop me off at
the Precinct, drop Moises and the kids off at McDonalds."
He turned around and looked at Moises. "Get them anything they want, Moises. If they
want two Happy Meals, get them two Happy Meals. If they want super-super sized fries, get
them super-super sized fries. And as they eat, find out where they live, and let Jorge know."
Moises nodded.
Carlos turned to Jorge and lowered his voice. "The two newest members of the cartel, El
Capo's teenage nephews, are chomping at the bit to do their first killings, so that's good. But they
are like dogs, and I need you to supervise those brutes. Make sure they honor the boundaries that
I have drawn: no grandmothers or grandfathers over the age of sixty-five, no siblings under the
age of these three boys, and absolutely no torture. A good man has to draw his boundaries."
"You can count on me, Captain," said Jorge.
"Good. Oh, and don't forget to take very good photos to show the boys. The mamas'

Page 11

bodies have to be clearly recognizable, or this whole thing will be a bust. Moises will give you
the camera." He looked back at Moises.
Moises nodded and patted the camera case next to him.
Carlos kept looking at Moises, and a wave of sadness crossed his face. "You know,
primo, I only give you a hard time sometimes because you are a good kid, and a smart kid, and
this is your chance to move up and do well for Maria and your babies."
"I know, Carlos, thank you," said Moises.
Carlos smiled and turned around. “Very good, then." As they passed San Juan Battista,
one of Tijuana’ oldest churches, he made the sign of the cross. “My mother prays there every
day," he said.
A few blocks later, Jorge swerved the truck in front of the La Coahuila District Precinct.
Carlos opened his door, and slowly got out. Then he turned and opened the back door. He
smiled, looking down at the boys, and extended his right hand. "Congratulations Señor," he said,
shaking each of their small hands.
After he shook Juan's hand, Carlos' gaze rested on Moises. Moises lifted his hand off of
the camera case, and squeezed his cousin's forearm.
Carlos smiled sadly. "Gracias, primo. Gracias."
*********
Jorge waited outside in the police truck while Moises took Javier, Juan, and Jesus into
MacDonald's. The three boys jumped up and down with excitement as they ordered whatever
they wanted from the menu. Javier's super-sized fries were so big, he had to hold them with
both hands, and for the longest time he sat in his scooped-orange-plastic chair just staring down
at them. Then, as though emerging from a trance, he looked up at Moises. "Would you like
some fries, Tio?"
At that moment Moises knew what he had to do. The seeds of that certainty had been
planted that morning when his kissed his wife's swollen belly, and their infant stirred under his
lips. He would take the boys back to their families after MacDonald's, and they would live.
And he would not. What he had done on earth was sinful beyond a child's imagination. But
now, during this final moment of truth, Moises clung to the hope that when his son looked up
during his darkest hours, he would glimpse a flicker of light.


