It had been a good day for Tommy O’Brien. His mom, Joanie, had been calm and she appeared to have
enjoyed the walk that she and Tommy had taken in the local state park. Since Tommy had been a little
boy, he had enjoyed going to the state park. The park was “natural” having been set aside from the
developers. Being that it was “natural” it offered a window into what the area must have been like
hundreds of years ago. A time before any settler from the western shores of Europe had traveled here
to make a new life.
When Tommy was younger, Joanie used to take him to the park to walk along the trails that meandered
in and out of the Palisades Mountains that lined the mighty Hudson River. Tommy always marveled at
his mom. She had a quiet appreciation of the great outdoors. Joanie also very spiritual and she
respected the thing she called the “spirits of the land”. Tommy remembered questioning her about what
exactly she meant by that phrase. Her response to him was nebulous. She said it was more about feeling
and less about definition. She told him that he would understand more when he grew older.
As Tommy sat on the front porch of this his family’s house, he felt as if he finally understood what Joanie
meant when she explained the “spirits of the land” to him so many years before. He could not describe
it but he could feel it. As he sipped a cold pint of Budweiser, he let the good feelings of the day rush over
him like a warm blanket. Joanie sat directly across from him on the porch in her favorite chair. As
Tommy stared at his mom he realized that she had been sitting in the chair for over five minutes. That
was welcomed relief because Joanie was prone to shuffle endlessly back and forth anywhere she went.
When she shuffled, Tommy would have to follow her to make sure she did not fall. She often fell
because she had difficulty seeing a set of stairs or a curb that was in her path. But today she just sat with
the cup of Lipton tea that Tommy had made for her parked neatly to her right on a small redwood table.
Tommy then remembered that he needed to help her drink it. He stuck his index finger fairly deep into
the mug and realized that the tea had cooled sufficiently enough to offer it to Joanie. He had made the

mistake of offering hot tea to Joanie in the past. He had forgotten that Joanie had long ago forgotten
how to blow on hot liquids and as a result when Tommy offered her tea, she usually ended up burning
her tongue. But not today, today Tommy had let the tea cool sufficiently. He lifted the mug to Joanie’s
mouth. She opened wide and Tommy carefully spilled some of the brownish white liquid in.
Much to Tommy’s surprise, Joanie swallowed the liquid without spilling. He did not know if Joanie was
acting on reflex but as soon as she had swallowed the first mouth full, she opened her mouth wide again
and waited anxiously for more. Tommy smiled as he knew that somewhere deep down in her person,
there was a piece of Joanie that was enjoying the day as much as he was. He spilled more of the liquid
into Joanie’s mouth and she swallowed again. The pair repeated the process until the mug was drained.
Tommy then went into the house to place the mug in the dishwasher and to check on dinner.
For dinner, Tommy had purchased two fresh slabs of Striped Bass at the local market. He was not a huge
fan of Striped Bass but he knew that Striped Bass was his mother’s favorite. Tommy remembered the
old days when Joanie used to scour the local markets to find the freshest fish at the cheapest price.
Tommy checked a few places but had not been as diligent as Joanie. Fortunately, even though it was
October when the bass was not as plentiful as in the spring, Tommy was able to procure some really
fresh fillets from the market just down the hill in the center of town.
Tommy placed the two fillets he had purchased on a counter near a window in the kitchen so that he
could maintain a good view of mom. Tommy washed both fillets and then rolled them in some olive oil.
He next rolled the fish in frying flour to which he added some Cajun spice. He placed the fillets on a
cooking pan and let them sit. He next shucked three ears of corn and smeared them all with butter and
salt. He then wrapped each ear of corn in tin foil and placed them next to the fillets. He was about to go
to another counter to grab some tomatoes and cucumbers that he had purchased at the local farm

market when he realized that he needed to check on mom. He looked out on the porch and his mom
was still seated in the same chair she had been seated in before. But something was different.
Tommy squinted to make sure that what he was seeing was real and he was pleasantly surprised that is
was real. Joanie was smiling. Tommy could not remember the last time he had seen his mother smile
but it made him happy and he suddenly grew emotional. He always thought that it was one of his
greatest weaknesses which was he had trouble controlling his emotions but he realized a long time ago
that there was not much he could about it. It was just one of those things that made Tommy, Tommy.
Tommy caught himself in time to remember he still needed to prepare the tomatoes and cucumbers. He
made his way back to the kitchen and washed two of each under the water in the sink. He sliced them
up and placed them on a long flat serving platter. He next drowned both in balsamic vinaigrette before
placing the platter back into the refrigerator to cool. He next placed the fish and corn on another serving
platter and went back outside to start the grill.
It was six PM and already it was dusk. The long days of summer had grown shorter as the calendar
advanced to the beginning of October. Tommy missed the light of summer but he loved the cool of
autumn. Besides the coolness of the season, Tommy especially loved the turning of the leaves. He again
looked out the window at mom and noticed that the two majestic oaks that guarded the front yard had
started to turn a brilliant yellow and brown. Across the street two maples were starting to turn a
brilliant red. Tommy loved when the leaves turned. He could think of no better art than to watch nature
change its color.
He started the gas grill with a long wooden match and placed the platter that held the fish and corn on a
side shelf attached to the grill. He closed the cover to let the grill heat. As bad as he wanted to sit and
enjoy the evening, he knew it was time to take Joanie to the bathroom. As the Alzheimer’s progressed
over the past three years, Joanie had lost her ability to go to the bathroom by herself. Part of Joanie’s

new bathroom routine was to sit in diapers for most of the day. Tommy realized he did not place Joanie
in diaper today because the fabric of the diaper irritated her skin when she walked for a long period of
time. He was fully expecting to find out that Joanie had wet herself but was pleasantly surprised to see
that she when she stood up to be led to the bathroom she was dry.
He and Joanie had a routine in the bathroom. He would undo her garments after which Joanie would do
her business. When Joanie was finished, Tommy would help his mom clean herself. Tommy had been
squeamish about the arrangement at first but as the disease continued to bankrupt more and more of
Joanie’s being, he grew comfortable with helping his mom. She needed him just like he needed her
during the dark years. But today’s trip to the bathroom was different. Joanie allowed him to lead her to
the bathroom but once there she went ahead of him and closed the door after her.
Tommy did not know what to do. He did not want to insult Joanie but he was unsure if she was still alert
enough to be insulted. He decided to wait before barging in on his mom. He waited and waited and then
after about five minutes he heard the toilet paper roll rotating and then a flush. He waited for another
minute and then the door flew open and Joanie stood there. She still wore the blank stare of
Alzheimer’s but there was sense of something which Tommy could not put his finger on. Tommy
inspected Joanie but did not see any stains and he realized that she had gone to the bathroom by herself
without suffering an accident. He next led her back outside to her chair. She sat down willingly and
Tommy returned to fire and cooked the night’s supper.
He and Joanie feasted on the spoils of a Hudson Valley Harvest. The striped bass was very fresh and
tasted delightful in the light oil and seasoning. But as good as the fish tasted, the corn stole the show. It
was a marbled variety of alternating golden and white kernels or a variety that the locals liked to call
“Peaches and Cream”. The “Peaches and Cream” corn cobs were magnificent. Tommy ate two ears and
helped his mom eat one. He held the ear up for Joanie who worked along the husk as Tommy rotated it

slowly in a clockwise fashion. Next the pair chomped on the tomatoes and cucumbers which were
refreshing and cool.
After the pair had had their fill, Tommy cleared the plates from the table. In the kitchen he scooped out
two big scoops of ice cream for the each of them in a small bowl. He decided to let his melt a little while
helped Joanie with hers. Much to his surprise, Joanie grabbed the spoon out of his hand and began to
eat the dessert by herself. He watched to make sure that she did not eat too much too fast which would
give her an ice cream headache. Joanie paced quickly through the ice cream but not quickly enough to
cause problems. Satisfied that Joanie was alright, Tommy made quick work of his dessert.
After dessert, Tommy cleared the bowls. He led Joanie back out to the porch and she again willing sat
back down in her chair. It was a clear, crisp fall night. It was the kind of night that cooled quickly unlike
the summer nights that took their time producing comfortable temperatures. Tommy decided that he
too would sit on the porch. He wanted to watch football and he knew that Alabama was playing LSU at
8Pm. It was 730PM now. He decided to drag the TV that was in the living room out onto the porch. He
had watched TV on the porch before but it was during the day and it was easy to check all the
connections in the light of day. It was dark now and Tommy still needed light to make sure that all the
wires remained snug when he pulled on the TV. He knew he was going to need a flashlight to do the
work now.
He remembered that mom kept the flashlights in a hallway closet close to the kitchen. He went to the
closet and looked for a flashlight. The closet was more unruly than he remembered and he began
organizing some of the clutter as he searched. He found a flashlight but not before he saw it.
It was the little brown satchel that Joanie carried with her when she came to visit him in prison. She
came every week for ten solid years. Tommy remembered Joanie and that satchel. Joanie would carry
books, cookies, and when it was appropriate birthday presents in the satchel. Tommy lifted the satchel

and noticed that its soft leather had dried over the years. He was now forty six years old and close to
turning forty seven. He had been in jail for ten years starting at age twenty. If someone had asked
Tommy if he would have turned forty seven when he was twenty five, he would have said no. Prison did
that to him, it robbed him of hope in the future.
It was Joanie’s determination that kept the light of a bright future flickering in Tommy’s life. Everyone
except Joanie had given up on Tommy. Joanie believed in her son and she put her money where her
mouth was by making sure to be there for him when just about everyone else in his life had given up on
him. Joanie and that little brown satchel were like the Pony express arriving on the prairie. He took the
satchel out of the closet and ran upstairs to his room when he plopped it on the bed. He promised
himself that he would get the satchel oiled.
He came back down stairs and carried the TV to the porch. He then popped on the flashlight to make
sure none of the cable connections had been broken. It looked like everything was fine and then he
turned the TV on. The Crimson Tide and LSU tigers were lined up singing the national anthem. A
thought popped into Tommy’s head. He wanted to get Joanie ready for bed. She had walked a long
distance today, longer than she done in the last few months and he was sure the combination of
exercise and fresh air would bring sleep to Joanie. Then he looked at his mom and he noticed that she
was smiling again. It made him so happy to see her smile. It had been a while since he saw that smile. It
had always been a beacon of hope for him and it had lit up his life. He decided to just let her be.
Tommy went back into the house and grabbed another pint of Budweiser. He sat back down in the chair
opposite to Joanie and began to watch the game. It was defensive battle for the first quarter and no one
scored. Tommy having finished his second can of beer decided it was a good a time as any to use the
bathroom. He looked over at his mom to see if she needed anything and suddenly realized that she had
fallen off during the first quarter. He debated letting her just sit there asleep but decided it would not be

a smart thing to do. She had settled awkwardly in the chair and he knew that she would have a stiff neck
in the morning if he left her stay in that position.
He went into the house and relived himself and then he came back outside to fetch Joanie. His mom had
become a light sleeper lately but it took a good shake from Tommy to wake her. He led her back into her
room where he helped her get into her night gown. He next led her into the bathroom and this time
Joanie let Tommy help her go to the bathroom and brush her teeth. He next led Joanie to the bed and
tucked her in for the night kissing her lightly on her forehead. He whispered ”Goodnight Mom” in her
ear. And then another odd thing happened. Joanie whispered “Good night Tommy”. It had been months
since she had spoken but Tommy was sure she had just said goodnight. He looked at his mom hoping
that she would talk some more. He really missed her. But she had already fallen asleep.
As he left her room, he went to lock her door. The night walks had started like people had told him they
would. When the aide was not there it was Tommy who had to deal with Joanie’s night walks. Tommy
found them scary. Tommy also did not get very much sleep when Joanie walked so he had spoken to the
doctor who suggested that Tommy put an adult diaper on Joanie and lock her door at night. Tommy
could not bring himself to do it right way but as he grew more fatigued from not sleeping, he decided he
had to in order to survive. He looked down at the lock and made the decision that he was not going to
lock the door tonight. He was right out on the porch and he would hear his mom if she began to wander.
Tommy grabbed another beer from the refrigerator and returned to the porch. He sat down in his chair
enjoying the football and cool air of the autumn night. Alabama had kicked a field goal while Tommy
was gone caring for Joanie and it was three nothing and LSU had the ball. That was the last bit of the
game that Tommy remembered. He had underestimated how tired he was as well and soon fell fast
asleep. When he woke up, SportsCenter was blasting on the TV. He quickly went over and turned it off.
He next noticed that it was so late that it was now early. A dim ray of light was visible in the East. The

Robins had long stopped singing in the summer but Tommy heard Cardinals and Blue Jays in the
distance. It was early morning. Tommy figured it to be around 545AM and when he walked into the
house to check on his mother he was happy with himself for guessing so well on the time. It was actually
550AM.
Tommy first went to the bathroom and then went to his mom’s door. He remembered now that he had
left the door unlocked and he suddenly became frightened. What if she had wandered? He had been out
cold and was sure he would have missed her. The only thing that reassured him was that the door to his
mother’s room looked undisturbed. He was pretty sure if Joanie had passed through the door, it would
be ajar. She had been unable to close a door behind her for some time. He turned the knob on the door
and when inside.
His mom was in bed under the covers. He went over to kiss her on the forehead. As he placed his lips on
her forehead to kiss her, he noticed that she was cold. It was not very cold in the room and so he next
lifted her blanket to feel down around her hip. He went to move her and realized that Joanie was stiff.
She had passed in the night. He backed away from his mom for a moment and looked at her. The dawn
outside grew in intensity and as it did light began to trickle into Joanie’s room. In the light, Tommy saw
that she was still smiling and if he did not know she had passed he would have sworn she looked as
comfortable as he had seen her in months.
He grabbed her hand and squeezed only able to say”I love you Mom, I always will”. Then while holding
her hand he recited an Our Father and a Hail Mary. He next pulled up a chair that say at the foot of her
bed and just starred at Joanie. Through the crust of age he could see that bold, beautiful face. He
remembered Joanie’s positive personality. That personality had been his strength for so many years. He
thanked God for making her his mother. He was always proud of her because she stood up for what she
believed in and she always thought independently never feeling compelled to follow the crowd. But

most of all, Tommy remembered how much Joanie loved her family. She had proved her love again and
again in life by going the extra mile for everyone.
Tommy suddenly found that he was happy for Joanie. All the indignities she had suffered at the hands of
the horrible Alzheimer’s had ended in a peaceful dignified way. Thankfully she had not known the worst
of things that happened over the last six months having died her first death over two years ago at the
hand of the disease. None of that mattered now. She was at peace. She was Joanie again not Joanie with
Alzheimer’s.
After sitting at the foot of Joanie’s bed for a half an hour, Tommy rose from his chair and went to the
kitchen and made coffee. He poured a steaming mug and left it black. He went to the front porch to
watch the sunrise over the neighborhood. A scout crow cawed in the distance as the sun shined down
on the changing leaves creating a spectacular fall scene. Tommy placed his mug down on the porch and
made a mental list of the people he needed to call. He would first call his sister and then the undertaker
before calling a long list of neighbors and friends. He wanted to make sure to get it right because it was
mom.
Sufficiently satisfied that he had the complete list, Tommy let the bow wave of grief pour over him. As it
did, he sobbed. He had always known that the second death was coming to Joanie. Joanie’s mind had
been taken in the first death but he knew that her body would be taken in the second. But none of that
mattered now. The one person in this world that had loved him unconditionally was now gone. He could
not think of another person who had done so much for him. He suddenly felt frightened that he was all
alone in the world. But before he could spiral down out of control, the spirits of the land came to him
and quietly reassured him that he would live to see another day. He also realized that his mom would
want him to carry on and be happy.

Tommy took some consolation but was still very sad. It was approaching 7AM. It was too early to call his
sister on the West Coast but he did manage to call the undertaker who told him that he would get
dressed and be over shortly. He also told Tommy to call the police and explain that his mom had passed
in her sleep. The undertaker told Tommy that the police would send a car around to the house. The
undertaker needed the police there so they could release Joanie’s body to him.
The two calls were exhausting and afterwards Tommy returned to Joanie’s room where his mom laid
smiling. He imagined that she would be smiling forever now and then made him really happy. But what
make Tommy the happiest was that mom had died in her own bed, under her own covers - mom had
died her second death with dignity.


