What was it like the day your were born? Was something different about the weather, world
events, family matters, what? Psychics can tell you about the star and planet alignments and
what the tarot cards say about you. Sometimes your Mother or other family member will tell you
about that day, by relaying how special it was because of you. But what if you were born a
millimeter of a second before or after your moment. Makes you wonder if your life and all that
has happened would have been different, intense, more prolific, or what.
Next, you can ask, does that really matter? I would have to say it would sure explain a lot of
inconsistencies that you’ve felt that made you feel doomed at certain times. Like there were
forces pulling you toward a direction, like in a Sci Fi movie, that you just couldn’t get away from.
A chaos not of your making but attached to you because you were born in the millimeter gap of
your birth moment.
I don’t think the sands of time and space have ever been questioned that way. They are a part
of the God factor, our birth corridor, the unknown of any matter and like it or not, it may have
something to do with the subconscious inconsistencies throughout our life.
As a child, you are learning everyday and every moment seeing, feeling and hearing your way
through the years being directed by family or yourself through the trial and error of daily
existence. This is good. One must find a comfort zone of preservation in order to defend
oneself when that zone becomes threatened. Early on we learn through mimic modes,
movements, thoughts and follow through decisions relative to the moment, yet never knowing
was it a good choice or bad in the overall existence of our daily endeavors,
As our time travels through life’s varying stages from birth, youth, middle age, midlife, old age
and other labels related to all beings born into the their gap of life, we sometimes conclude
things are as they should be. I disagree. That’s giving up without a fight. Have we mellowed
who we are so much that our answers, thoughts and questions are so well rehearsed that there
are no variables left to explore?
Glimpses, or daydreams as I would label them, are the swords we need to fight for the
millimeters lost from day one of our existence to present day and beyond. It pioneers new
beginnings. It’s a reach we should and need to take toward the stars of possibilities, still not
visualized into an action, but formulated to further a resolution to the pandemonium that
relentlessly follows us with each and every breath we take.
Delving into the chaotic layer of life is not easy nor is it pleasant. Most don’t know about it, feel it
or even consider it as relevant or even existing. It’s frivolous, selfish, psychaotic, and down right
unnecessary depressing moments in time we don’t need to investigate. What for? Who cares?

Crazy excuse for a boo hoo hoo moment. All that is true, but it’s does make one question and
think about the what if?
Lives are like race cars speeding down a track weaving in and around obstacles to continue
down the path to the goal line. We all hope we travel and sometimes we unknowingly race down
it hoping to finish with accolades and awards for things we’ve accomplished or left impressions
upon for others to follow.
Would the project started many years earlier be any different if the millenium gap we were born
into had shifted forward or backward or stalled in it’s tick in time? That’s for pandemonium
pervadors to delve into and study. A never ending project of truth and lies, good and bad,
positive and negative, birth and death. Each one telling a different story and ending. It’s a choice
we hope we make, but then again, who really knows.


