It is a new day, a new week, and a new age, 1­day morning at MoreCorp and there is
a project on deck that’s perfect for Ellipsis, even if it takes us to a charged place, the naming
of which is political. So let’s not name it and say only that El reads Hebrew and is called upon
to do so when MoreCorp finally gets around to seriously reducing religion, a project much
discussed but usually abandoned for putting out fires ­­ internal investigations about illegal
data collection, for example.
Hebrew’s like Aramaic now, the religious texts were stuffy centuries back and today’s
postmod tongue is mostly txtlit with judaica emotis, the ancient characters ignored again after
their brief revival with the modern state of, well, That Place. MoreCorp policy is not to refer to
the place by any name but That Place. Because politics. The policy makes analytics ahead of
certain Too Long Don’t Reads (TLDRs) virtually impossible. How can you run a search for
“That Place” and come up with anything workable? It’s as problematic as the place itself has
historically been. Similar obstacles present when dealing with the place’s language, or one of
them, which has an awful lot of texts considering how few now have use for them.
Regardless, MoreCorp has resources for that, machines. They do the language part.
Ampersand explains to Ellipsis. “So you’ll just help analytics isolate important search terms
and then what they cull goes through the usual review. We’ll use Tongue.”
Tongue is the MoreCorp translation program, available to all on the webs and super
handy. It has some drawbacks, however, like it’s a program, run on a machine, not a human
with a sense of nuance. So Ellipsis, who is herself like a machine in a way, that is to say,
fundamentally stupid, offers to assist. “I’ve got no active cases on the tracker if you need me
stay on after analytics. Like to review in Hebrew.”

The boss does not respond but not because he’s pondering the offer. He’s smiling at
his device, nothing to do with this discussion most likely. Ellipsis, sadly, is not carrying. Since
she’s not brain implanted and just a mini authorized to do slot work she’s got no tek and is
forced to face the boss bare naked. Well, not exactly, she has a notebook, pen, but it might be
rude to doodle. Ampersand looks up, blank faced. “Sorry. What?”
“The Dead Sea Scrolls, I can help eliminate them. Cuz I’m not busy.” Ellipsis is unsure
if this is a sufficient reasoning given the little concern shown for work thus far. “And it’s
interesting.”
“Your kind of thing. Why I thought of you,” Ampersand says. “Still, we do have a
workflow and you’re not worked into review, so no. Stick with Analytics. They’re a great team
and you’ll really be blessing them.”
Ellipsis smiles, tries to stop, can’t, and Ampersand’s infected, grins back. “What?”
“Blessed. It’s funny cuz we’re reducing religion. Plus. blasphemous, me participating in
the elimination of my people’s ancient secrets and all.”
Ampersand is confused but doesn’t want to inquire in case this verges on a race
discussion, which he hates and are illegal since there are none, or there is just one, and he’s
got other syncs to attend. “Ok, kool, so we’re square? Ping Analytics and you’re in.”
“Who in Analytics?”
“Oh? Don’t you know? Ping the king.”
“What?”
“Mint. We call him the king because he blesses us with his blissful mindfulness.”
Ampersand smiles smugly, triumphantly. It’s a very reverent comment coming from such an
irritable fellow. The boss is often cranky when he means to be a good guy, a problem he’s

2

The Positude

gone to many relaxation retreats to resolve, but now he’s found a workaround for his personal
sysglitch, to put it in tek terms, which is always best practice.
When Ampersand feels things have gone awry he rings the bell of someone friendlier
to have associated good feels imputed to him. It’s a trick for soaking up someone else’s sun
and using it to look out for number one that tactical managers employ, and he likes applying
those new skills he’s been building. Satisfied, boss escapes confer­klatch and heads out for
an early weigh­in so that he can really enjoy lunch, run, massage, and fight club. The best
way to grow focus on managerial duties is with good work life balance and the kind of creative
play that made MoreCorp the amazing place it is today. Ampersand is expected to take
advantage of the amenities. He won the prize. He’s a total hi­5.
Ellipsis, a mere new thumbs­up, is not necessarily obligated to return to her slot and
ping the king right away. She could wait all day. But she is expected to account for time, with
notes, in quarter hour increments in order to be paid by MidCorp via MoreCorp. (Or is it the
opposite? It gets so confusing!).
Mint’s not online or in Analytics when she walks over, crosses the threshold, a very
visible line demarcated by a wall of snide inside jokes that only this sub­unit is in on. Analytics
is the team for the numbers people of the word world, the top of the bottom of the top corp in
the world, and they lord it over everyone else in the TLDR Department.
The team uses searches to reduce the number of comps readers will review in
reduction productions. They’re the hotness here. Only Discovery Operations, or DiscOps,
where all the project managers reside, is more obnoxious. At least she’s not working with
them, Ellipsis tells herself, as she enters Analytics anxiously, noting that her presence has
been noted (sudden quick pinging on all sides!). She stops at the nearest slot. It’s a lucky day

3

The Positude

and she finds herself before the quirky gender progressive wizz kid who is the oddball star of
this team of otherwise very staid and conservative regiprofs.
Said wizz is named Lollipop, Lolli for short. It’s a common name but Lolli is uncommon
in many ways. Her gender bending is not the defining element of her weirdness ­­ what’s
amazing about Lolli is her mostly unabashed approach to the absurdity of TLDR and her part
in the project. She is mystery, the space between near and zero, the light Ellipsis looks to
when it seems impossible she’ll ever actually suxeed here, proof that MoreCorp has a sense
of humor. Someone in Discovery gets the value of a good laugh even if the joke’s on us all. Of
course, El’s already been accused of reading too much into things, and Lolli’s suxess could
be connects. “Ellipsis, welcome, I hear you’ll be blessing us with take­aways on how to
eliminate traces of your people’s history today. So you must be feeling psyched.”
“Makes me wanna deep­dive.”
“Thatta girl. Good answer. Now be good bot and go back to slot until king summons.
We too await Mint with baited breath and will message instantly using instant messaging
capabilities provided by corp for said comms.”
“Gotcha. Thanks.”
“Laters. I’ll ping.”
It takes a few days for Mint to make himself available for a sync on the scrolls ­­ fires,
investigations, personal emergencies prevail. Ellipsis is in no hurry because mixed feelings.
But the time does come and she does learn that the king seeks search terms from a
native speaker because Tongue yielded none, not a single comp in Hebrew amongst all the
interwebs well organized works, no reference.
“Just seems unlikely,” Mint offers reasonably. Despite his reputation, he’s being stingy
with the good feels. “So we figured we had to use you even though we prefer not to.”

4

The Positude

“I see.”
“Because you could compromise the review ­­ you know, by knowing.”
“I’m sorry?”
“No worries. Just that we need you for some very targeted purposes is all. So just stick
to the script and we’ll move this along. My people made a list of terms. Connectors, excluders,
joiners, all that, we’ll handle it on our own. Just translate the words.”
“Will do,” Ellipsis says in a peppy tone, all about biz. But back at the slot, she’s stuck.
The terms yielded by Tongue lead to no references to the scrolls for a super simple and easily
fixed reason, also inextricably linked to the analytics aspect of this assignment that the king
wants no input on. She pings Lolli.
El: emperor naked, kid needs assist
Lolli: 2 in 5?
El: cu
She does not wait five minutes because she’s been going nowhere fast forever.
Rushing down the back stairs, avoided by many, as the building’s built over a toxic waste
dump that leaches poisons, she reaches for the cigs that she now carries everywhere. Gone
are the days of hiding bad habits in the glovebox. As constant consumers of poisons, Ellipsis
and Wolf are indifferent to the potential effects of using the passage and partial to the privacy.
They park near the door and meet regularly in the back of the lot for pow­wows.
Only the department’s most daring and secretive use the back stairs, ten Metropolitans
who arrived in the last two waves, all accustomed to crap environments, a few locals trying to
hide comings and goings, and a guy named Kai, from X­HK. Lolli is an odd hybrid, a
Metropolis transplant from several waves ago, survivor of a very unique Lovesport round held

5

The Positude

only in Analytics. She’s outspoken but careful to hide bad habits, lest they mar the impression
that she lacks the zest for long life required in a member of the MoreCorp community.
The ladies meet outside the far corner of the lot, on campus but by a bunch of
recycling containers. They are not alone. Angry homesicks are standing in the corner cursing
up the kind of storm that just confirms why people here say Metropolitans are negi and
aggressive. At the center of the group is Kai from former Hong Kong, a coder for DiscOps
who speaks infrequently but finds his fellow foreigners amusing. He’s filming this display for
friends at home ­­ the uploads get tons of likes on the infrawebs because everyone wants to
be at MoreCorp and finds the private bitching of all inside fascinating. It’s a whole sub­genre
of vids called schadenfreude­lites, which include all manner of misfortunes of the fortunate, a
less nasty genre than celebrity calamities but practically as satisfying.
“What are you thugs up to,” Ellipsis interrupts, hoping to stop the show. Despite
reassurances from Wolf and Kai, who does not want to give up his kool new underground
project, she’s concerned they’ll get caught in the act or, more likely, on the onlines. It would
kill their chances to compete in the Lovesport for a real job. El has even posited that Kai is a
plant, a company spy introduced to trip them up, a plot point Wolf finds incredible, like,
literally, expressing his wonderment at just how paranoid she is in Silicon.
“Alright kids, no vids. I’m serious,” Lolli puts her palm up and shoos. “We need time
and space ­­ two cigs, ten­foot radius to talk shop. It’s analytics, hush­hush, off you go!” The
disgruntled depart. “So what’s up? Sunny Bono rained on your parade?”
“Is that normal,” Ellipsis asks.
“Nothing’s normal, especially not here. But yes, it is. Mint is not so fresh.”
“Ampersand says he’s nice.”
“Ampersand’s an ass.”

6

The Positude

“He’s got a great name,” El protests halfheartedly on behalf of her boss.
“You would think that,” Lolli counters. “Just because he’s punctuation too.”
“He’s not. It’s a common error.” Ellipsis explains. “Ampersand’s a logogram, not
punctuation, and we don’t share any characteristics. He’s the chief, The Big And, and I’m an
omission with only silence to express. That’s actually why I summoned you.”
“For identity crisis? Or because logograms v. punctuation?”
“Because your boss,” Ellipsis explains ­­ keeping Lolli on track is even harder than
keeping an average person focused. She’s smart and tied to multiple devices so she’s fast but
easily distracted. “I’m not supposed to help you guys with the searches, like even mention
how the words work together, which means, well, they still won’t work.”
“Welcome to MoreCorp.”
“No kidding. But the solution’s super simple. So I’ll just tell you. Then you get clevs
cred and I’ve helped and everything’s awesome.”
“I like how you think,” Lolli says, tapping a txt, smoking, and planning their next move.
“This is what we do. Send me the search terms with connectors, like how you’d search if Mint
didn’t pretend we have a specialty, but before forwarding to him.”
“Yeah? And?”
“And I’ll wander over and make strategic suggestions in the nick of time!” Lolli finally
looks up from her txting to see Ellipsis totally depressed. “What? No good?”
“No. It’s good.” El tries to explain the language issue ­­ dead sea is salt sea in Hebrew
is all. But Lolli’s busy. Religious reduction always gets shafted for fires, a blessing in some
senses.
That’s how you have to look at things, in terms of blessings and silver linings. Before
heading back up to her slot to deliver the translation, Ellipsis stops in the bathroom, where the

7

The Positude

stalls display the latest installment of The Positude, a nowpow circulation, info on the loo ­­ it
is but one of many monthlies created to keep the MoreCorp community focused, prioritizing,
on track, at all times and in all places.
This month’s edition instructs looking at the metaphorical silver linings in the clouds
that threaten rain. It’s a weird message for a Silicon bathroom, where the water in the sinks is
suspected to be clarified, recycled piss, and rain is the only thing people pray for more than
greenies. But a point is being made and Ellipsis wants to get it, to see it MoreCorp’s way if
that’s what it takes. So she accepts, as The Positude insists, that every cloud has a silver
lining. This is tek ­­ if not silver, what?

8


