When I found Diana in the box it seemed as if it had been empty longer than
usual, but maybe that was just my imagination. It's not really a box, more like a wall
oven lined with blankets, with a door on the outside of the building and one on our side.
It reminds me of a pass through at a high security prison, or a delivery window, which I
guess it is. Anyone who brings a baby to us pulls down the outer door and lays the baby
inside. They ring a buzzer, and in a minute or two one of us will come down and check
the box. In the time it takes us to get there, the deliverer can make a quick getaway like
a school kid playing a prank.
It's a system designed around that idea, the idea of being anonymous, but next to
the box is a hanging plastic bag of bar-coded bracelets. In case you're unsure, if you
think you might want to come back and claim the baby, you can split a pair of them, and
we'll fasten one around the baby's ankle. It's adjustable, so in theory your baby can
wear that bracelet into adulthood. And if you show up with the matching bar code, you
get your baby back, no questions asked. In theory. But no one ever takes them.
It was my turn to go down and check, that day. As always I heard the faintest
ticking as I approached, but it faded into the gasping noises she made. Sounding like
she was working herself up into a good loud cry, except I opened the door and she must
have seen my big ugly smile looking down on her, blocking out the overhead
fluorescents. Most of the mad pink went back into her fists and feet, and she blinked up
at me her puckered dark eyes. Someone had diapered her up pretty good and put on a
little pink t-shirt besides that.
Sometimes we got babies just hours after they were born, you wouldn't believe,
umbilicals not even cut proper and that dark sticky meconium stuff oozing out between
their legs. Diana was a downright princess next to some of them: cleaned, half dressed,
someone's milk still dribbling out the corner of her mouth. I wiped it away with my gloved
finger and picked her up. That's when I saw it: the bar code band she'd been lying on.
I almost ran back with her. I was like a kid who wants to run in the halls at school
so she fast-whips her walking legs instead. I handed her off to the doctor on duty -- we
have a steady rotation of volunteers, it's mandated now, part of their residency -- so he
could check her out. Proud and smug, like I'd done something great, I also handed him
the bracelet. His eyebrows went up a little but he settled them down again quick.
Doctors, who're supposed to have seen everything, didn't like to be caught out looking
surprised.
He carried Diana and her bracelet away. I went back to the nursery, knowing
she'd show up there in a few hours when they'd got through her health tests.
I'd already started thinking of her as mine.

We are a full service clinic and Children's Home. That's the term they came up
with, the government I guess, because "orphanage" was too old-fashioned sounding
and everything else just brought to mind a mental hospital, or a school for delinquents.
Bet they never guessed, when the bill to outlaw abortions went through, there would



ever be such a place, let alone at least half a dozen in every major city. But there you
have it, and this is where I work.
Lots of people celebrated after the law was changed. Lots others protested, of
course, and there was plenty of picketing and even a few bombs left in empty baby
boxes. (I hear one ticking every time it's my turn to answer the buzzer, can't help it.) But
eventually things mostly settled down and went back to how they used to be, except it
was a "how they used to be" none of us had ever known. At first there were some really
positive results. All those unhappy people who couldn't have babies waiting years and
years sometimes just to get one, or else getting fed up waiting and going off to China
and bringing home one of their unwanted. Well, suddenly all those waiting people got
called up to take a baby, and pretty soon the waiting disappeared. No more hoping and
praying for years and then having some regretful birth mother change her mind on you.
All the waiting lines just dried up like creeks in summer. You could get your baby fast as
you could blink, and no more super-strict screening process, either. No sir.
But then the scales tipped the other way, just what you'd think: too many babies,
not enough childless couples. I think it had been so long, people thought real
orphanages were over and the only place you'd hear about one was reading that
famous Oliver Twist story. But foster care, halfway places and all that, in the end that
wasn't nearly enough. We still had back-alley abortions, of course, but that was
dangerous and just plain priced out for most people. So the babies kept coming and
coming, dropping into these boxes like locusts into corn fields, no end in sight to them.
* * *

3

I skipped back to the nursery to wait for Diana. As usual, about half the babies
were crying. The government allotted one of us caregivers for every four babies, and we
took twelve-hour shifts, so you were either days or nights. Nights were worse. Once you
got them sleeping all right they'd be a breeze but there was always new ones coming in,
awake and crying for you, having no idea the difference between sun and moon and
howling like wolves. Except they didn't sound like wolves, more like lambs.
On nights we had to keep the room as dark as possible, so the newcomers could
adjust their circadian rhythms, and diaper changes and temperature taking and all that
was done with a red emergency lantern. Something about holding the little lost babies in
the night made you lose hope -- you'd look out at the big cold moon, or the half-lit office
buildings tilting away into nothing, and you'd think about the stretch of their lives
heading off that same way into the darkness. Daytime was better, even if it was busier.
Maybe because it was busier.
Over time they'd get themselves on the same schedule somehow, little buggers,
like they say women living together all end up with the same menstrual cycle. You'd
have all four of 'em crying to eat at once and only one of you to give their bottles. We
weren't supposed to feed them more than one at a time, we were supposed to cradle
each one by itself like it was the only baby in the world, but we'd do it anyhow. One on
each arm and sometimes propping a bottle into the mouth of a third who lay on his back
in his metal crib.

4

Their crying was like a storm, the way they'd all be howling and eventually drop
out of it one by one until that layer of sky had passed, and we were down to those last
few drops on the roof, little hiccups into the silence. That was what we did; we were
always trying to work our way down to the silence.
Since the cutbacks last year we didn't have pacifiers anymore, so most of them
found their thumbs pretty quick. The ones who didn't just toughed it out, mainly, but
sometimes if a little one didn't know where his own thumb was, we'd take our pinky
finger and slip it into his strange gummy mouth and let him suck on that. I'll tell you a
secret. We weren't allowed to handle them without gloves on, for sanitary reasons. So
we had these eggshell gloves that made our hands sweat and left a powdery residue on
our palms and between our fingers. Our hands always smelled a little of sweating
rubber, even when we weren't wearing the gloves. But it didn't seem right to me that the
babies would never be touched by bare hands at all. So I used to take my gloves off, a
lot, and stroke their faces. And I'd even put my bare pinky into their mouths and that was
such a feeling. If you've never done that you have no idea how strong a baby sucks,
how insistent they are. I'd feel the ridges on the roof of a mouth press into the pad of my
upturned finger, and I was always surprised when the baby released me that I couldn't
see any ridge marks imprinted on my skin.
We have them in our room for two years, and then they move to the toddler room
where they master things like spooning their own food and using a potty. I'll see my
babies, sometimes, walking by the doorway out in the hall, all in a perfect line as proper
as you please, like they never threw a carrot stick at anyone or fell down to the mercy of
the hard floor screaming their rage. I'll see them, two and three and four years old, and

5

think already how they've grown, how much closer they got to being adults when I
wasn't tending them. When I see them shuffle along, pretty much in unison except for
the odd one turning his head this way and that, or hitching up the back of his pants
making a funny out-of-place gate, it's like looking through the doorway into their future-the tight-fitting jobs they'll one day have, which could remind them of this tight box that
shaped them, even though they may not remember me.
* * *

That day when I found Diana, the girls could tell right away something was up
when I went back to the room. I picked up one of my crying babies and hid my face.
"Why you look like that?" Marianne accused. "You find a bar of gold in there,
something, instead of a baby?"
I couldn't help grinning, even though Carol, she disapproved of me. She didn't
think it was a happy occasion when a baby was left on our doorstep. Well, and she was
right about that.
"Something better," I told them. "I found a bracelet."
They were all impressed. There were low whistles and whispers. Even the girls
who wanted to act nonchalant were glancing up from the babies they rolled and
diapered, wondering.
"I'm naming her Diana. She's beautiful."
I mixed up bottles for my bunch who were all going to be hungry soon, and
tapped my rubber sole against the linoleum.

6

You may be wondering how I came to name her Diana. Our rule was, whoever
found the baby in the box was responsible for naming, and we went alphabetically, like
they do for tropical storms. So I just had to pick a name that began with whatever letter
we were on, and then they all got the same last name: Doe. When they got to be
eighteen they could go ahead and change that but they mostly didn't, I hear, because
what other name would they choose? Doe got to be a popular name, even more than
Smith. They were like clansmen, all these abandoned, as if they'd all come from the
same place.
I guess Doe was the name they used to use, back before the mandatory dental
and DNA registry came in, if they found a dead body with no identification. There is no
such thing as dying unidentified, anymore. John or Jane Doe, those were the names.
When we're on the J names we never use John or Jane. It's considered bad luck.
I don't have any of my own, in case you're wondering. You might want to know
why, with all these babies up for grabs, I don't just help myself. There are a few different
reasons. I'm not married, so I'd have to figure out care for my baby when I'm not home,
if I had one. I could bring the baby to my work, of course, but then it would be living just
as bad as all these poor abandoned and I wouldn't like that. I don't make much money
doing this job, that's another thing. And to be honest, until I saw Diana, none of them
ever really appealed to me that way.
But the only reason that matters is the fact I once used a baby box myself. Not
here, it was far from here, but it has always made me feel strange. I had a good reason,
at the time, so no regrets. But part of me has always sort of thought I gave away my

7

chance with that little one, and maybe I wasn't supposed to get a second. Give a child
up like that, maybe you don't deserve another chance, I'm thinking.
* * *

When they finally brought Diana in my arms were full and one of the other girls
went to take her. But she brought her right over to me so I could see her face peering
out of her swaddler, just like we all agreed she was going to be mine. I had four already,
but Tina said she could take Wendy over for me, and that would make a space for
Diana. In another two months our oldest crew would be moving into the toddler room
and some of our cribs would be empty.
Right away I could see my Diana was a bright one. She was alert all the time,
looking around at us and all the other babies, studying on them. She cried some like
any baby but mostly stayed quiet so she could do her watching. The doctors said she
was about one month when we got her, so she was already starting to take notice. She
could smile even; I'd swear it wasn't just gas. She would gaze up at me and take my
own smile, like she could thief without using her hands.
Like you'd expect, we have a mixed bag of babies, some real quick and smart,
others more slow and plodding, but we do have more kids with problems than you'd find
in the general population. I hate to say but we probably get quite a few that come from
incest, so we get more than our share of mental retardation, cleft palate and things of
that nature. We all, those of us who work in the Children's Homes, have extra training in
special feeding techniques, and a lot of classes to help us prepare for the slow

8

development. We see a lot of kids here with Down Syndrome, too. Some people, when
they saw they'd given birth to a kid like that, just gave them up because they figured
they didn't want that sort of child. Some people had a way of thinking a child like that
couldn't belong to them, and they told themselves that lie so strong it came out like
truth, and it wasn't hard to give away a wrong child, someone whose face was small and
flat and just looked to them like a mistake.
None of it really matters anyway because they were given up to us, so no one
cares how fast they learn. Plus mostly the Down's kids tend to take their life in stride;
they're content to sit on the floor and take it all in. They don't fuss much or get upset
when other kids get things first, or take their toys from them. So all in all I'd say in a
queer way they make things easier on us.
Diana was far and away the smartest, and I'm not saying that just because I
wanted her to be. Everyone knew it. She could sit on her own when she was only five
months, and walk at only ten, which here in the Home, where the kids spend too much
time in their cribs, is almost unheard of. She studied every toy she could get her hands
on: stacking rings, shape sorters, the big wood alphabet puzzle. But what really
convinced me of her smarts was just this look in her eye. When she was still real small I
held her and gave her her bottle, and while her tongue pulled on it she stared in my
eyes a kind of thank you, like she knew what to say but didn't have the words yet. Most
kids the older they got the less they looked at you during bottle time, the more they
looked round at the world, and when they could they reached up and took the bottle with
their own hands. You could put them down with it, in the crib, and run to the bathroom or
pick up the next baby in line. Diana knew she didn't want that. She never stopped

9

looking at me that thank you, and also questions about me, about the world, I had this
feeling she'd have liked to ask. She always reached up and touched my face; she
wasn't interested in grabbing the bottle. She was putting all her feeling and all her
questions into me through her hand, very light and gentle, and I was looking all my
answers back into her with my eyes, just like that.
One day when Diana was about six months old we were looking at each other in
just that way, when Marianne came and whispered in my ear, low and mean, "You just
love her so much because of that bracelet. You think that makes her special, because
none of us ever saw one of them wearing that before. And you only love her because
you know you can't ever have her. Not like that."
As if I didn't know. "I love all of them," I told her loftily, and that was true as well.
Afterward I took the train home like always. There's this empty field it passes on
the way into town, which slices up between two long stretches of storefront. I can never
figure out why no one's invested there yet, but I'm glad they haven't because in spring
time I look forward to it every day. I watch the way it shifts slowly into green, and then
one morning when it gets warm enough, I'll see it. In last night's darkness a whole crop
of dandelions dotted the whole thing over, and there they are, uneven like constellations
of stars, confused, who think the world is in endless night.
* * *

We weren't allowed to photograph our babies, so I practiced seeing Diana's face
when I closed my eyes. As she got older and I could better make out her features -- the

10

round brown eyes, the curl to her hair, the set of her mouth when she concentrated -- I
tried to draw pictures of her, in my spare time at home. I don't know what the Children's
Home officials would have said about that, but they didn't need to worry about me
coming up with a likeness. It was a thing I could do over and over and never get right,
but I liked trying. I could spend hours drawing, and over the months I piled up plenty of
them, not even one of them right. I kept them in the deep drawer of my night table. After
spending the day with her I would switch on my bed side lamp and look at them all in
the circular light, and I could see what the trouble was. I knew how to draw a face, but a
baby face was something I couldn't quite conjure. Their features were soft and fuzzy,
whereas mine were dark and angled, the sharp corners of a nose set too square into
her cheeks, the hatched outline of her mouth, the thick black eyebrows. Eventually I
figured out the best parts of all my pencil drawings were the places I accidentally
smudged with the side of my hand. Any place her jaw line blurred or her nose had a
smear of smoke on the end of it, only those places looked like the real Diana to me.
When I tried to draw the folds of her neck or her smile, my lines just came out like
wrinkles and it looked like the face of a little old woman, over and over as I flipped
through them, this old bald woman was grimacing pain again and again.
Maybe I drew Diana because I worried for her; she was always taking sick. First
it was a whole mess of ear infections, one after the other, and those changed her. She
screamed all the time, cried and threw herself around like a bucking horse. At first I
thought maybe she'd just reached that stage, with the tantrums and fits. Then she ran
feverish and started pulling on her ear like crazy, like there was something buried in
there she needed to rip out before it swelled and burst her. The policy was no antibiotics

11

the first few times; the doctors didn't want them overused, and except for Tylenol she
had to suffer through. She couldn't sleep, just cried and cried, pushed her own ear till it
was angry and red on the outside as it must have felt inside her. The infections kept on
coming, so they relented some and let her have amoxicillin to clear them up.
I came to hate her for crying so much. I'm sorry to say. I used to hold her, rocking
her through the pain you know, and she would look up at me out of her pain-squinted
eyes, her pink face damp with it, like she wanted to know why I didn't fix her. And her
hollering was so bad and constant it started to fill my head, too, took root inside me until
I was sore as well, like I was the sick one.
And then the infections wound their course and she seemed to get better. Once
she could hear properly again she was fast picking up words, just like she'd been fast at
everything else. She said "Go-go" first. It was as close to Jojo as she could get, which
was what all the girls called me, short for Joanne.
* * *

All the while I was waiting on Diana's mother, knowing one of these days she'd
come and claim what she'd left, like a woman with a coat check ticket. It happened from
time to time, even without the bracelets. Sometimes a mother who left her baby inside
our box, she would come back. She might look ashamed, or indignant, or just plain
stunned, like she woke up to a mistake she'd made while sleepwalking.
She'd come in at the front desk entrance, opposite side of the building from
where she'd left her baby, and just straighten her spine and ask what happens if she's

12

changed her mind. Sometimes it took a little gentling and prying on the part of the office
girl, to get her to come out and say it. But when she did we'd let her right on in to have
her pick. She knew when the baby was left and whether it was a boy or girl, so we'd
bring her straightaway to the right room. Of course we didn't get babies every day here,
so we'd know exactly who she was looking for, but for some reason we never admitted
that. We let her hunt. We had ourselves a bit of a guessing game. The mother would go
shopping, down between the rows of cribs as if they were grocery store aisles, looking
at all the faces like she was looking into little puddles, hoping to see herself reflected.
She would lift the babies out one at a time and sniff the tops of their heads like trying to
sniff out a ripe cantaloupe. That always did the trick. If there was no birthmark to go by
or flaming red hair or hooked nose, the smell of them worked every time. That look, of a
mother getting the right smell and pulling her baby back into her, that gave me a chest
bubble. It didn't even matter if she had the right one -- she took home the one that she
chose.
That was pretty much it. Papers were filled out and signed, and we'd say
goodbye to our little child and say a prayer the house it was going to would be better
than ours.
Still, we had good times together. I waited on Diana's mama every day, waited for
her to come and be the end of them. When me and the girls were mostly fed up we'd
take the babies down the hall for dance time, put on the radio and swirl them around the
room. They loved that. Most of them would stop right crying as soon as they felt the
swoop of us moving them down and around, lifting our arms up and arcing them over
our heads. The older ones would stand on their own all around us and bop up and

13

down, bending their little bowed legs to the music, heads going like the toadstools you
have to whack with a big rubber mallet in that old arcade game.
And there were also the quiet times. Diana staying awake into the evening while
my other three were sleeping, sitting in my lap while I turned the bright brushed pages
of a picture book for her. I pointed at things and named them so she could repeat the
new words back to me, with all their closing consonants dropped off from the ends like
ash.
Then sickness came and found her again. We'd been playing a game of hideand-seek with it all this time, only we didn't know we were hiding. At first she caught a
cold in her chest, and she was coughing and dribbling, bending over her wood puzzles
with her mouth open tasting the stale air. She was tired and cranky, but at least she
wasn't crying. I waited for the cold to trigger another ear infection. Instead, I saw her one
morning hitching her head up, trying to breathe. When I checked her nail beds they'd all
turned blue as little wildflowers. So I rang for the doctor on call to come up and he sent
for an ambulance that took her to the hospital two miles away. She didn't come back
from there.
Eventually the news blew over to us why -- she had sepsis, following pneumonia,
and her organs were closing down. I went to see her, took the bus after my night shift
one early morning. She was registered under Diana Doe so they knew I wasn't family,
but they could guess what I was to her so they let me in. Otherwise she would have
been all alone, all the time.

14

They'd taped the little white ventilator to her face, but I sat beside her and
touched the untaped parts of her cheek. She seemed to be sleeping, but I spoke as if
she would hear me.
"Baby girl," I called her. "You have to hold on. You have a mama out there
somewhere coming for you. I know you always thought I was your mama, but I'm here
to tell you now that isn't so." I pressed her hand. "She did leave you with me, she asked
me to take care of you, but only until she could come back and get you. So you need to
hold on tight to the world, or you won't get the chance to meet her."
I told her and told her, but in the end she didn't hold on tight. Maybe she couldn't.
I know this seems like a really sad story, Diana's story, but for me it's always
been the joyful parts that stood out. That's why I'm telling it.
* * *

On my train ride back home I sat on the eastern side to be sure and see the
dandelions. They had all turned white, glowed in the horizoned sun, and they all had a
small darkness at their centre like a thousand eyes. At home I opened my night table
drawer, lifted out the pile of baby drawings I'd made and set them on the bed. Once the
drawer had been emptied I saw it at the bottom, a little white surprise in a ring, as if I'd
forgotten. And it dawned on me what a liar I had become. I told you right at the
beginning that I'd never seen a baby wearing the bracelet before Diana. But I did. I saw
one on my own, before I closed the door on him.

15

I like to think instead about Diana's bracelet, and the mother who is still out there,
and how she is coming for her forever.

16


