Aunt Ruby tried to save me at the courthouse, but I don’t
think her evangelism had the intended effect.
The courthouse is a three story, art-deco structure built
in 1921. This significant fount of my salvation protrudes out of
the middle of Mount Zebulon’s main intersection.

A historic marker by the entrance denotes the site of the largest known,
yet noticeably absent, tree in the state, greeting taxpayers
with the over-wrought enthusiasm of a junior-high guidance
counselor.
The county judge expressed concerned that if the courthouse
ever caught on fire (as rural courthouses are prone to do) then
the county’s troublemakers would find their new home six feet
underground. This was because the third floor was the old county
jail and the only access was a curved narrow stair in front of
the second-floor courtroom.

Two people meeting on the staircase
cannot pass without embracing each other.
the staircase had been built so narrow.

No one remembers why

I assume only that the

architect and builders believed such a narrow passage would make
jailhouse escapes much more difficult. Thus, after a fierce
debate with the more reform-minded citizens of the county, and
perhaps the ACLU, a bond-issue was approved and quickly followed
by an increased property tax.
This did not settle well with my aunt, whose only known
support of taxation involved a concern over President
Eisenhower’s support of Social Security.
“A fire would wipe them out once and for all, anyway.

I

don’t see what the problem is with using the third floor jail,”
Aunt Ruby said to my father.

She made it clear that she did not

want the county commissioners to approve the construction of the
new jail.

“Besides, our school library needs those funds,” she

would argue.

Sometimes, it was the hospital.

was the city streets.

Other times, it

Regardless of where she thought the money

was needed most, or to whom she complained, my aunt failed to
recognize that the new jail was going to be built.
“Now, Tulip,” my father said (it always irritated my aunt
for her brother to call her that), “if the courthouse burns down
with an occupied jail, then the Mount Zebulon Church of Christ
will lose half its members.”
“Moreover,” my father continued over her protests, “the
presiding sheriff—a member of your congregation might I add—
would have a hard time getting re-elected, as half the voters in
the county would be related to those held in the jail that
burned to the ground.”
Although I always thought she sounded like the goose in my
grandpa’s pond, Aunt Ruby was the lead alto in the Mount Zebulon
Church of Christ Ladies’ Choir and Garden Club.

My dad, having

married a woman “outside the Church” as Aunt Ruby once described
it, was Methodist.
The judge won his argument and a new jail was built in
1956. Shortly after construction ended, the sheriff was smitten
with excitement at the expanded capacity to keep the drunk and
belligerent.

He created his own Sting Operation against all

county bootleggers to demonstrate the county’s prowess at
housing the criminally minded.
“Tulip,” my father had asked over one Sunday dinner, “how
is your sheriff’s Operation Moonshine?”
“Humph,” grumbled Aunt Ruby.

“At least he’s taking action

instead of just talking about our problems.
too, you know.”

He’s your sheriff,

She paused for a sip of sweet tea.

“Besides,

that’s not what it’s called.”
“Really?” said my father with the same tone he used when I
once implored with him that the teacher just imagined my
unexcused absences from school.

“Just how effective does the
3

Aunt Ruby’s Jurisprudence
sheriff think he’ll be if the lead alto of the Church of Christ
Ladies Choir knows the details of his plans?”
My aunt looked at my father the same way she always looks
at me.

“It’s Ladies Choir and Garden Club.”

drink.

“Don’t criticize what you don’t understand.

Christian man.”

She took another
He’s a good

Aunt Ruby liked to emphasize words.

“Oh yes,” my father mumbled. “I forgot that he’s been known
to counsel lonely wives at the cemetery late at night.”

I’m not

sure what my dad meant by that, but Aunt Ruby did not discuss
the religious virtues of the sheriff again when he ran for reelection.
After Operation Moonshine, the deputies filled the cells so
quickly (most of the bootleggers were easy to find, the deputies
having only visited them the weekend before) that they forgot to
leave room for Victor Bertranelli, who was scheduled to be retried before a new jury in Mount Zebulon’s district court.

“Mr.

B,” as he was more fondly known, was on trial for “running an
unlicensed gambling hall” and “keeping a disorderly house.”
I was ten years old when Mr. B was caught, and stayed up
for three nights in a row, cleaning my room, until my father
told me that a “disorderly house” referred to the cleanliness of
the women in the house and not the rooms.
“As long as your Aunt Ruby and your sister bathe regularly,
you will not be arrested,” he spoke softly as if that reveal had
4

Aunt Ruby’s Jurisprudence
to remain secret.
The newspaper headline read: “Too Much Booze for Sheriff?”
Aunt Ruby attributed that phrase to my father, despite the fact
that he did not work for the newspaper and did not know anyone
who did. Mr. B was brought from Garland County into Albert
County for trial, the sheriff decided, instead of releasing one
of the bootleggers, that he could risk holding Mr. B in the old
jail at the top of the courthouse next to canceled voter
registration cards. This was the last time a prisoner was held
in the third floor jail.
This is where my path to heavenly grace and Mr. B’s path to
prosecution would collide. Aunt Ruby took the opportunity to
instill part of her moral virtues in me, and decided that I
should miss school and sit with her in the courthouse to watch
Mr. B’s trial.

“You need to observe first-hand what happens to

the scourge of society,” she stated, “when they fail to adhere
to standards of Christian moral decency.”
It was my sentence for putting a frog in my sister’s doll
crib.

Aunt Ruby wanted me to miss school and sit in court in

rigid benches that rivaled any church pews.
it punishment.

My aunt considered

I was happy to be out of school, even if the

price was a sore backside.
Mr. B was a portly Italian from Hot Springs (or Chicago,
depending upon the time of year) who, according to the paper, at
5

Aunt Ruby’s Jurisprudence
the sprightly age of seven, had the fortune to survive the
Titanic’s fateful journey.
“You would think he’d have been brought to Jesus by nearly
drowning,” Aunt Ruby sighed as we walked to the courthouse.
“Yet, some people are bound to relent to their moral flaws.”

I

had no idea at the time what it meant to “relent” to one’s
“moral flaw,” but I suspected it had something to do with why my
aunt was escorting me to the courthouse instead of sending me
off to school.
We arrived at the courthouse and proceeded past the clerk’s
office, its shelves full of mysterious three-foot tall, redleather books, and up a curving staircase to the second floor.
Wide timber planks framed the courtroom walls, probably made
from the last primeval megaliths before cotton migrated like a
weed through the flats of southern Arkansas.

Aunt Ruby chose

our spot in the public seating area beneath one of two massive
bronze and glass chandeliers, resembling dim yellow eyes of a
giant grasshopper, watching me in the sweaty, cavernous jungle.
I vowed then and there, if I survived the battle between
relenting versus decency, that I would use crickets instead of
grasshoppers to catch perch in the creek.
On the second day of trial, Aunt Ruby and I stood outside
of the double doors leading into the dark paneled courtroom
waiting for a breeze, when we heard the sliding of metal pins
6

Aunt Ruby’s Jurisprudence
and squeaking of hinges somewhere overhead.

We turned to see

two deputies bring Mr. B, dressed in his zebra-stripe jumpsuit
and handcuffs, down the narrow staircase from the third floor to
the courtroom after his noon meal.
“He ate a whole fried chicken, two helpings of mashed
potatoes and fried okra, four biscuits drowned with a cup-and-ahalf of gravy all washed down with three quarts of sweet tea,” I
had heard a lady in the clerk’s office whispering to Aunt Ruby,
when we returned for the afternoon session.
“Can you believe... when children at the orphanage...” my
aunt gasped, unable to complete her sentences.

Somehow, to Aunt

Ruby, any excess was only fully appreciated when compared to the
plight of an orphan.

Even if Mount Zebulon itself did not have

an orphanage.
The wooden stairs groaned under the weight of Mr. B’s treetrunk legs as he slowly waddled down each step, with one deputy
in front and one deputy behind him.

After four steps, he wedged

himself between the wall and the railing.
“He did THAT on purpose!” decreed Aunt Ruby as she clasped
my shoulder.
The white-haired deputy, whose most exciting moment as a
Court Security Officer had previously been an attempt to rescue
a stray coon dog from a collapsed Nativity scene in front of the
courthouse, stood three steps below the Italian and tried to
7

Aunt Ruby’s Jurisprudence
pull him free by his handcuffs. “You push and I’ll pull,” he
said.
The other, younger deputy, who had received a medal of
honor for rescuing a deputy and a stray coon dog from beneath a
collapsed Nativity scene and was the Hero of the Year for my
second grade class, stood two steps above the Italian and tried
to push him forward.

The five minutes of pushing and pulling

forced Mr. B into a position between the rail and the wall where
he was bent over at the waist with his arms straight out in
front of him, pointing down the stairs as if he were ready to
dive into the Little Missouri River.
“I do believe he’s stuck, Earl,” said the white-haired
deputy to the other.

Rolls of fat bulged over the railing, as a

series of creaks and pops rattled out from the stairs like a
string of Black Cat firecrackers.

I feared the entire staircase

would disappear and merge with the first floor.
Mr. B’s wife, or Mrs. Bertranelli, a wiry pale woman whom I
had not seen until that very moment, began yelling and crying,
to which Mr. B responded with his own yelling and crying.

They

might as well have been speaking in tongues at a revival, as no
one in Albert County (much less Mount Zebulon) could ever have
understood them: regardless of their language of choice, they
spoke far too fast for any native resident to comprehend.
The older deputy stood below Mr. B, scratching his head,
8

Aunt Ruby’s Jurisprudence
while Deputy Earl continued to push.

Sweat dripped from Mr. B’s

balding head.
The initial audience of three spectators below the stairs –
myself, my aunt, and Mrs. Bertranelli – grew to include another
Court Security Officer, four attorneys, the county clerk, the
judge, half the jury, two other schoolmates of mine, and five
men from the lumberyard who had apparently heard about the
foreigner stuck in the courthouse staircase.

Everyone gathered

to see the two in-artful deputies attempting to dislodge the
overweight Italian, screaming and arguing with his wife in some
unknown language.
Shortly thereafter, the ladder truck, accompanied by the
hospital’s only ambulance, arrived with the full volunteer fire
department force, resulting in the addition of six firemen and a
dog to the crowd on the second floor of the courthouse.

If this

was punishment for my misdeeds, then I surely was in heaven.
“Judge is callin’ the doctor,” muttered someone in the
crowd.

“He’ll know what to do.”

Even my aunt’s preacher

appeared and was ushered to the front near where we stood.

He

nodded at Aunt Ruby and added his hand on top of hers, still on
my shoulder.

My arm tingled from the loss of blood as Aunt Ruby

squeezed the significance of her lesson into me with her
fingers.

If anything, I was going to relent to Aunt Ruby’s

biting grasp and not adhere to any standards of decency at all.
9

Aunt Ruby’s Jurisprudence
Finally, one of the men from the lumberyard, who couldn’t
stand the extraordinary display of futility any longer, yelled:
“Saw through the guardrail!”
“Sounds good to me!” someone shouted.
“Why not?” said a female voice.
Another added, “He may be right.”
My friend Timmy, the barber’s son who always appeared when
anything unusual happened, was sent across the square for two
hacksaws from the hardware store. When he returned, Timmy was
brought through the crowd with the saws up to the older deputy
who rested one saw on the Italian’s back for Deputy Earl to
retrieve; they quickly sawed through the wooden rail.
Meanwhile, Mrs. Bertranelli banged her clenched fists on
the chest of the third deputy, acting as a supervisor of the
crowd, as she tried to rush past him up the staircase for some
unknown reason, thereby adding to the traffic jam.

I crossed my

fingers, secretly hoping she would succeed.
CRACK!
Suddenly, the piece of railing popped free from the support
posts.

As it flew across the hall from the release of tension,

the piece of wood struck Mrs. Bertranelli on the left shoulder
and knocked her onto the floor (to the grace of the third
deputy), where she sat, muttering and cursing to herself.

As

the crowd of spectators broke into applause, Mr. B, newly freed
10

Aunt Ruby’s Jurisprudence
from the narrow railing, slowly fell forward toward the whitehaired deputy, his arms still outstretched.

The older deputy

quickly turned and hobbled down the last few steps while Mr. B
slid behind him in slow-motion, almost like a runner into home
plate.

My aunt sighed heavily.

The doctor, already at the

courthouse, thus had two patients to tend, Mr. B and his wife,
and the judge recessed court until further notice.
Aunt Ruby never took me to the courthouse again.

11


