“Mephisto, old buddy, let's do lunch,” Raul Devry wrote on a business card. Carefully, he lit the
sperm whale oil in his lamp and fed the note into the flame. Raul had stolen the oil from a man
whose livelihood depended on his reputation for being able to get any contraband, and even more
so, hold it until the purchaser paid for it. Raul felt those things should get the demon's interest.
Perhaps the lunch would even be that day.

Raul doused the lamp, reconnected the smoke alarm and office sprinkler system, and put his
appointment calender, open, on the top left corner of his dark walnut desk. A truly lovely office
was one of the many perks of his job. Pale cream wallpaper with the company logo as a motif
and a window with a view of the narrow garden between the office and the no uglier than most
urban sidewalk had, when he began, made him feel like a CEO. His salary covered a lovely
penthouse a half-block from the office and a service to clean it. He had plenty left over for a
large IRA.

And he enjoyed every day at the office, truly. He liked dressing in the Brooks Brothers shirts and
crisp white shirts his personal shopper provided. He did not mind wing tip shoes and staid ties as
long as the leather and silk lived up the their price tags. Women with skin the color of his desk
and wrinkles around their eyes, graying black or chestnut hair covered in nets, kept the place
immaculate, the coffee fresh, and a steady stream of scrumptious and wholesome snacks
available. They would even pick up dry cleaning and items from the lobby drug store for him and
the other partners.

From ten in the morning until six or seven in the evening he had the perfect job. It was the night


shift that got to him. His penthouse had come with a kitchenette, two bedrooms, a bath and
powder room, and a large combined living and dining room. He supposed they were all still
there. He was too tired when he stumbled in at four or five in the morning to turn on any lights
except in the bathroom. He wondered if he'd notice if the cleaning service didn't keep up with it.
Probably not.

Raul wanted to keep half his job. Mephisto had gotten him the job in the first place. Maybe the
demon could explain how to keep it under control.

“I take it you need a favor again,” said a soft, rich bass voice from somewhere behind the
wallpaper, or maybe under the carpet.

“I do. But lunch with you, Sir, is always an experience worthwhile in and of itself. And of
course, I'm paying.”

“I accept your summons.”

Raul glanced at his calender. Neat block print letters, amazingly like the handwriting of Terri, the
secretary Raul shared with Karen and Pete, flowed across the square for that day, darkening to a
dull brown as Raul watched.

“High noon, sales pitch with Meph, at A Little Place in the Park,” Raul read. Well, he had the
expense account to cover it. Given how little time he had to spend his own money, he could even
pay for the lunches himself.

“Don't even think of using your card or cash,” the voice purred. This time it definitely came from
under the carpet.

The “Little” in “A Little Place in the Park” did not mean cramped, but exclusive. Raul's suit,
being neither silk nor one of a kind, put him solidly in the restaurant's business class. About half
the lunch patrons were like him, the men in pinstripes, the women in colorful, daytime variants
of the little black dress or conservative skirt suits and pumps. They occupied the small metal
tables and outdoor chairs. While waiting for food and to talk business, they admired the
reproduction paintings of famous parks on the walls.

Mephisto had claimed one of the tables for two, each with its own convincing artificial arbor of
grapes or roses, and supplied with deep, padded wing chairs in which a philanderer or high-end
criminal could disappear without interrupting lunch or the business being conducted over it.
Like most in the first class of A Little Place in the Park, Mephisto followed the dress code to the
letter and did developmental work on its spirit. The demon wore black raw silk trousers and shirt
with a jacket of red leather trimmed with sable fur. His tie was a gold and ruby bolo, and the
ruby's little brother shone from his earlobe. He smoked at the table while he waited for Raul,
flicking ashes toward any from the business class tables who dared glare at him.


It was almost the same outfit Mephisto had worn the first time Raul had taken the demon to
lunch, except back then the demon had worn a white buckskin and blonde mink vest with
matching boots, and his bolo and earring had been diamond. That time, Raul had foolishly
accepted Mephisto's condition that Raul's girlfriend join them. Teeka had been uncomplimentary.

“Blood diamonds, Bambi skins, and boiled worms. Held together with sweatshop labor,” she'd
said.

Raul had cringed, waiting for the offended demon to reduce the tiny, tactless blonde to a pile of
herbal-lotion scented ash.

Mephisto had risen from the table to bow and said, “A discerning eye you have! You missed only
that the sewing was all done by sick children under the age of ten. I had to go to an adult for the
designs, but no worries – the calorie restrictions necessary to her professional credibility have
already weakened her heart.”

That weekend, while Raul prepared for the interview Mephisto had arranged at his present
company, Teeka had hung out at the pool bar, drinking. Perhaps that was why she had stayed in
the water when the storm swept in. Either way, she landed in the hospital after a lightening strike.
Raul could not visit on account of the interview. He came home to a voice message in which
Teeka asked him, as a special favor to aid her recovery, to disappear from her life.

The head waiter escorted Raul to the booth and asked Mephisto if the gentlemen were ready to

“Mephisto, Old Buddy! Let's do Lunch,” page 5 of 19

look at the menu.

Raul nodded and asked Mephisto if he would be kind enough to choose lunch for the table.

“Excellent idea. There's such symbolism about eating together.”

Mephisto opened the menu and his lips moved as he read silently. After a full five minutes,
which Raul timed by counting his rapid heartbeats, Mephisto looked up and closed the menu.

“I believe we'll start with the lamb salad,” Mephisto said. “There's a special sweetness to a life
taken early, and the the labor involved in harvesting the greens! Mmm.” Mephisto purred with
anticipation. “Not a single fair labor practice was followed in the production of that lettuce! All
illegal immigrant labor, you see, and a considerable threat of exposure and arrest if they did
complain.”

“A bit risky, but it does keep costs down,” Raul said. He wanted Mephisto to realize he was a
man of business, one willing to step over the ethical lines to close a deal.

“As for the salad itself, the kitchen here gets free prep labor from cooking schools by implying
there might be a slight preference in hiring after graduation.” Mephisto blew a concealing cloud
of rich tobacco-scented smoke and leaned across the table. “Of course, there is none. There's not
even job security for the chefs!”

“Mephisto, Old Buddy! Let's do Lunch,” page 6 of 19

Raul told himself he had paid his dues through a series of underpaid internships during his
college years. He was entitled to enjoy greens watered with desperate Mexicans' sweat and
washed by the tears of aspiring chefs.

“For the second course, veal – or no, I think the poached tuna. That leaves us going from meat to
fish, but two dolphins died in the net with this fish. The dolphins were twin calves and their
mother beached herself to end her grief. What's more, the company lied and sold the fish as
dolphin-safe, which adds a lovely sparkle of deceit to the finished dish.”

“My sister dragged us all through Sea World when we went to Florida,” Raul said. “I wanted the
rides at Disney but no, we had to go get splashed by Shamu and then after that we actually went
out on a boat to see the little cousins. Murdered baby dolphin will be fine.”

“Good. There's another amusing twist to the dish – it's listed on the menu as gluten-free, but
there's wheat flour in the sauce on the potatoes and carrots that come with it.”

“Sounds delicious.”

“I'm torn on the dessert course,” Mephisto confessed. “The chocolate cake, of course, but maybe
the angel food cake?”

“Angel food is almost as innocent as the name suggests,” said Raul. “Sugar, yes, but protein and

“Mephisto, Old Buddy! Let's do Lunch,” page 7 of 19

hardly any fat.”

Mephisto blinked. “I do enjoy the aftertaste of environmental degradation you get in most
sugars,” he said. “And the charred bones used to refine it add a certain something, especially
when people claim it's vegetarian. But the real dilemma for me is do we want child labor or a
larger portion animal abuse? And of course there's such delightful gluttony in the angel food.”

“I thought the chocolate would be more gluttonous?”

Mephisto shook his head. “Ah, no. The gluttony is that the restaurant only needs so many yolks,
so they throw out most of the ones they don't use in the cake. And a laying hen's life reminds me
of home, if you know what I mean.”

“May I ask a maybe rude question?”

“Of course. I consider it a sign you're progressing.”

The demon blew a cloud of smoke in the eyes of the young woman in the next booth. She barely
seemed old enough for her glass of house white wine and her dress, while elegant, clung tighter
and concealed less than many bathing suits. Her companion was no threat to Raul and Mephisto's
privacy. He had eyes only for the lady's cleavage and ears only for the waitress who had just
offered to refresh his cognac.

“Mephisto, Old Buddy! Let's do Lunch,” page 8 of 19

“Would the angel food taste any different to you if the restaurant fed the yolks to homeless cats?”

The demon made a face. “Does strawberry syrup in club soda make a Daiquiri?”

“I see your point. By the way, please do order wine and cocktails. I'm buying.”

“We'll start with mint juleps, I think, to go with the lamb. Then, yes, pinot grigio with the fish,
and then Champagne. Since you don't pick up the subtleties I do, I'm thinking you'd prefer the
angel food with Champagne?”

Raul nodded. He suspected his taste buds would be numb before the dessert course anyway.

“Call over the waiter, and then tell me what's on your mind,” said Mephisto.

The waiter approved their selections and brought Mephisto an ashtray. He also put a small fan on
the nearby serving table, angling it so the smoke took a more direct route to an open window.

“I love my job,” Raul began. “Teeka left me because of it, but it's a lot more fun than she was. So
first, please, let me tell you again how grateful I am for that interview and your references.”

“An intelligent young woman, but no taste or wisdom,” Mephisto said. He put out his cigarette
as the waiter served their lamb salads and juleps. “To see everything as clearly as she does, but
not be able to appreciate it properly.” The demon bowed his head so long in regret for Teeka's

“Mephisto, Old Buddy! Let's do Lunch,” page 9 of 19

moral streak he might almost have been saying grace over the shortened life and abusive labor
practices on his daisy-rimmed salad plate.

Raul noticed the present tense and took courage from it. Mephisto had not, in Raul's experience,
ever been unreasonable on pricing. “The thing is, if I can't have some time away from the office
I'll never find a replacement for Teeka. I rented a nice place, but I don't even have the time to
invite friends over for drinks.” He hoped Friday night martinis were edgy enough to satisfy
Mephisto. He could have mentioned harder or illegal drugs, but they were not his thing the he
suspected Mephisto knew it.

“Moderation,” said Mephisto, opening his eyes after savoring the last leaf of lettuce. “It's a bit of
a virtue, but it has its place. I think I can help.”

Raul swallowed the last of his julep. Before he could ask what Mephisto had in mind, the tuna
arrived. Even had he not wanted to stay on Mephisto's good side, he was not yet an evil enough
man to interrupt a being so obviously enjoying his food. Raul himself appreciated the dish and
even more the wine with it.

The dessert course followed quickly. Raul nodded his approval of the Champagne, pretending to
still be sober enough to tell it from lemon-lime soda. Mephisto dropped two hard objects on the
table next to Raul's dessert plate.

Raul ignored them until the waiter left, although doing so required him to pretend an unseemly

“Mephisto, Old Buddy! Let's do Lunch,” page 10 of 19

interest in the legs of the lady dining in business class. Well, between her short, side-slit skirt,
five-inch heels, and very sheer silk stockings, she probably wanted people to look. Better to be a
cad than draw attention to the demon's offering.

Casually as he could after doing justice to the liquid portion of his lunch, Raul picked up the
objects.

“Opal cufflinks?”

“Yes. You'll find a garment bag on your coat rack in the office. At six o'clock sharp, change.
Wear these cufflinks. Then hurry home and put on your own clothes unless you want to be
caught in the nude when I take your dry cleaning at seven.”

“But what about my boss?”

“If I, as a demon, recognize that evening clothes may not be worn in an office or during the day,
surely your boss will take the hint.”

“And what do I owe you?” Raul placed his expense account American Express card on the
waiter's little silver tray and signed the bill with the matching Cross pen without even looking at
it. He figured forty dollars should cover the tip. He was fairly sure it had been a good quality
Champagne, and he had certainly enjoyed the Italian pinot grigio.

“Mephisto, Old Buddy! Let's do Lunch,” page 11 of 19

“I consider the pleasure of sharing this little luncheon with you sufficient.” The demon reached
out and pocketed the tip.

*

*

*

*

*

Raul worked hard that afternoon despite his inebriation. He cleared his in box of emails which
required little or no judgment to answer. He brainstormed ideas on paper and his voice recorder,
but carefully refrained from sharing even the ones he liked best. After the lunch beverages had
two hours to get through his system, he returned phone calls from his less valuable contacts and
clients. The clock on his computer said one minute after six. His cell phone said six o'clock
precisely. Raul lowered the blinds, closed the door to his office, and stood where he could hold it
shut if someone tried to come in without waiting to for permission after knocking. His boss and
Terri both had that habit.

The garment bag contained silk boxers and a silk undershirt, black silk socks, a white silk shirt
with French cuffs, a white bow tie, white waistcoat, a matte black swallowtail coat, and matching
pants with a glossy stripe down the outside of each leg. A box under the garment bag contained a
top hat. Fortunately, the suit matched Raul's shoes. Quickly, Raul changed, bundled his work
clothes into a spare bag from the dry cleaner, and slipped the opals through the holes in his cuffs.

Nothing happened. Raul opened his office door and his boss nearly hit him in the face as the door
he'd meant to knock on moved.

“Mephisto, Old Buddy! Let's do Lunch,” page 12 of 19

“So sorry, did I get you?” Mr. Schillingford said.

“No, I'm fine. What can I do for you?” Raul wondered when Mephisto's opals would get to work.
He could practically smell the last-minute request on Mr. Schillingford's breath.

“I just wanted to say goodnight,” Mr. Schillingford said. “I know you have a major project
coming up next week; you should rest up while you can.”

“You mean, go home early?” Raul did not want to push his luck but he had to be sure.

“Or out, since you seem to be dressed for the opera. But don't stay out too late, okay?”

“I won't,” Raul promised. In fact, once he'd changed he fully intended to spend the evening in the
company of Captain Crunch and Tom Cruise.

*

*

*

*

*

Raul loved his new life. Every day just after six he put on an elegant tuxedo or white tie
ensemble and his cufflinks. If his boss did not come to his office by six-twenty, Raul would pick
up some copying or other random papers and roam the corridors until he met Mr. Schillingford,
who would forget whatever he'd meant to say and send Raul home. Raul did not even feel guilty,
since Karen, Pete, and Terri, even Mr. Schillingford's personal secretary, Bridgine, usually
slipped out with him.

“Mephisto, Old Buddy! Let's do Lunch,” page 13 of 19

Twice a week he hosted Captain Crunch for a sports watching or movie night. Monday,
Wednesday, and Sunday afternoon he played squash or swam at the health club where he had
finally spent enough time to find squash partners and recognize the staff. Friday and Saturday he
dated. No one serious, yet, but Raul had discovered he enjoyed both black and white tie events.
When he dressed for them in his own clothes and bought an extra ticket he could always find a
well-turned out and pleasant companion to join him.

June nineteenth, Raul had planned an intimate movie night with a lady who might just be worth
dating exclusively. She reminded him a bit of Teeka, but without the moral scruples. Jen enjoyed
the jewelry he bought her, the pricier and shinier the better. She used cosmetics well and dressed
in alpaca all winter, silk in the spring, and cool linen in the summer. She didn't mind him
enjoying the texture of the clothes and makeup artistry. She seemed to like it even better when he
did justice to her lab animal-tested skin care regimen and lean-meat nourished muscles beneath.
But she could not come until her own overly dedicated boss released her. So Raul had given his
own work an extra half-hour and now he had to hurry. He knew too many of the neighbors to risk
losing his clothes to Mephisto's curfew.

Raul had only one street crossing between him and his lobby. His phone beeped a frenetic alarm,
the highly appropriate Minute Waltz. He darted into traffic, straight-arming an overburdened
bicyclist crossing in a bike lane at a green light. He had more urgent things on his mind than
right of way. He did not look back, or stop for the shoe which slipped off his foot as he nearly
tripped on the opposite curb.

“Mephisto, Old Buddy! Let's do Lunch,” page 14 of 19

Just as his apartment door clicked shut behind him, Raul felt a sudden chill as the air
conditioning blew against his naked skin. He kicked off his remaining shoe, locked the door, and
went straight for the bathroom and then a hot shower.

*

*

*

*

*

A year later, Jen begged off their usual movie night. Their wedding was that weekend and she
and her maid of honor needed one final fitting on their dresses. Raul didn't mind too much. Next
week he and Jen would be alone together on their honeymoon cruise. Let her have some girl
time. He'd have a quiet bachelor party with Captain Morgan, watching a film which, while not
exactly x-rated, was quite definitely a red-blooded male's version of a chick flick. But first he
and the Lucky Charms leprechaun would check his email and Face book feed.

Raul scrolled past a rant about the current President, another about people not respecting that
same public figure, the announcement of a new job, and a pretty funny story about his sister's
three-year-old twins. He'd finally met the boys that winter, since Mephisto's magic cuff links also
came in handy when he wanted a long weekend.

He was about to scroll past a feel-good repost. Then he recognized the street he crossed every
day on his way home. An earnest young man with a microphone stood with a woman his own
age, an elderly man, and a child with shoulder length straight hair who could have been a boy or
a girl. The child held a small brown and white spaniel. The old man held a man's black dress

“Mephisto, Old Buddy! Let's do Lunch,” page 15 of 19

shoe, much too large for his feet. It looked familiar.

Raul pushed away the last of his cereal, his stomach lurching as if the milk, which was perfectly
fresh, had spoiled. He put on the sound.

The old man said, “I was getting too old to be doing deliveries, but I wasn't ready to quit. It
wasn't the money. I never married and I didn't go out. I had no one to go with. I had money
saved, but I needed someone to help me spend it. I needed someone who needed me.”

The interviewer said, “A year ago today, Gene got his wish. His guardian angel pushed him into
the path of Cheryl's sports car. Gene survived with minor injuries. But he saved this puppy.” The
camera panned to a close shot of the child and spaniel.

The woman said, “I had just started up at the green light. I couldn't stop in time. When I got out
of the car to see what I did, there was Gene, in the road, with this skinny, filthy little puppy
licking his face.

“I called the paramedics and they took Gene to the hospital. But all he could talk about was the
puppy. He said since he saved its life he didn't want to leave it. So I said I'd keep her until he got
better.”

Gene said, “Cheryl brought Angel – we call the puppy Angel – to see me every day. Even after I
came home, Cheryl, Angel, and Leslie would come see me. First they brought me food, then they

“Mephisto, Old Buddy! Let's do Lunch,” page 16 of 19

helped me make dinner, and we talked about dogs.”

The interviewer said, “And now Gene has someone to help him spend his savings. Many
someones.” The picture changed to a suburban house with large fenced yard full of dogs. Gene,
Cheryl, and Leslie stood on the front steps of the house.

“Cheryl's husband died two years ago, leaving her and Leslie well provided for but with broken
hearts. Now Gene has joined them as an honorary father and grandfather, and they have pooled
their money to make this shelter for stray dogs like Angel. But Angel will stay right where he is.”

The final clips was Angel, clean, sleek, and looking considerably more spaniel than mongrel,
washing Leslie's face.

“And like Cinderella, all the stranger who enchanted their lives left was a shoe.”

Raul did not scroll on. He deliberately cleared his throat, uncrossed his arms and legs, and
waited. He wished he could hide the sweat running down his face.

A shadow under the window rose like smoke. When the dark mist cleared, Mephisto appeared in
a silk-embroidered sweatshop denim vest and tight black leather pants and boots, a medallion of
mixed gems hanging from a chain around his neck and a large gem-studded hoop in one ear. The
demon held out a black dress shoe to Raul. “Yours?”

“Mephisto, Old Buddy! Let's do Lunch,” page 17 of 19

“Oh, Mephisto, I am so sorry.”

“Then grovel already,” the demon roared. A wind smelling like skunk and rotten eggs whipped
through the penthouse. Furniture tipped over. Delicate art glass fell from shelves and shattered.

Raul crouched on the carpet, covering his head. He needed no acting skill to cringe and wail in
terror.

The smell vanished. The gale died down.

“Eh, it happens,” Mephisto said. “All the time. Good has this way of winning. But I had to at
least salvage some wrath from the situation.”

“You've left a pretty bad mess for the maid,” Raul said.

“And you're not to touch it,” Mephisto said. “The embarrassment is a better lesson than merely
getting your hands dirty.”

Raul would have to hide the mess from Jen for a day or two until the maid came. He supposed it
served him right for letting altruism toward puppies and the formation of a new and loving
family loose on the world.

“I was going to watch a bachelor movie and have some rum,” Raul said. “Can I get you a drink?”

“Mephisto, Old Buddy! Let's do Lunch,” page 18 of 19

“Please. And would you mind terribly tonight if we did serious porn? The kind where the actors
suffer?”

Raul supposed when things went wrong a demon had to take comfort where he could. And he did
not want to risk another display of wrath. “Whatever you need to do, buddy. Listen, there's some
foie gras in the fridge. I understand those geese have a rough life.”

Mephisto unleashed a small sulfurous wind and cleared off the leather sofa. He sank down on
one corner of it and put his head in his hands. “Thanks. I think I took out your shot glasses. We'll
have to drink the rum out of coffee cups.”

Raul went into his bedroom and quickly pulled out a small toy box from his childhood. He pulled
out two shot glasses from his alma mater. He returned to the living room, righted the coffee table,
and put the rum, shot glasses, and a silver serving dish of crackers and foie gras on it. “Please,”
he said. “I may not be much as a force of evil, but I do have standards.”

Raul filled the shot glasses with rum and handed the slightly larger one to Mephisto.

“Sickness,” said the demon, and they clinked glasses before draining them.

“Mephisto, Old Buddy! Let's do Lunch,” page 19 of 19


