Carlisle parked his car in 1B as directed by the parking attendant at the gate. He looked
up to the five-story hotel that came highly recommended by a quick internet search as being the
best place from Tennessee to Canada to disconnect from the world. Following the daffodil-lined
path to the lobby, excitement mingled with nerves as he opened the door and was greeted by a
black-haired receptionist in slacks and a blue blazer behind the counter. Instantly taking a liking
to her, Carlisle felt abruptly at ease, as if forced into a state of euphoria.
“Welcome to The Silent, Mr. Graphs. You will be in room 6S. We do have a few rules.”
Carlisle felt himself nodding to the woman as his suitcase was ripped from his hands by a man
with kind but overly stern eyes, who looked as if he might be living in a war with no relief. “We
ask that all residents check technology at the front desk, aside from one item of your choosing,
just our little way of ensuring that all residents get the quiet necessary to be truly at peace.”
Carlisle watched himself hand over everything he owned with wires, except his iPod,
briefly and vaguely wondering what would possess him to do so. Never before had he felt so
compelled to do as he was told, most especially by a stranger, yet here he was doing exactly that.
“Great, you’re almost set. You are welcome to leave whenever you like, however, we do
prefer you don’t, in order to avoid the distractions of the outside world. You come here for
peace, and we do our best to grant that.” Carlisle nodded, knowing he had nowhere to go
anyway, “Just need you to sign this waiver stating you will uphold our atmosphere of silence by
not speaking to staff or other residents.” He watched, again, as his hand signed the waiver of its
own accord as directed by the lady. “Once you pass through these walls, you will begin your new
life. In your room, there is a box which will allow you to contact the front desk should you need
something. We serve three meals a day. When you are hungry, you need only to push the green
button on the box and we will bring your meal. There is a reception hall on every floor open to
residents from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. daily. Residents are welcome to read or play games with each
other; however, reception rooms still hold to the rules of silence. Marshall will take you to your
room now.”
Carlisle tried to ask for a key, but never got the words out. The lady answered his
question without having heard it, “You won’t need a key, all resident doors are kept unlocked
24/7.” Marshall led him through a whitewashed door and down a hallway. Observing the
subdued tans on the walls and floors, he noticed that if you didn’t look close enough, you might
think that the walls and floor were one and the same. Carlisle thought to ask questions, but as
soon as he thought them, Marshall would glare at him over his shoulder.
When they finally reached his room, Carlisle stepped inside expecting some kind of
grandeur. After all, with the price they charged per month it should look like the Ritz. What
awaited him, however, was more tan, with nothing more than a dresser, a small portable closet, a
bed with the sheets and blankets he had been instructed to bring already thrown perfectly across
them, and a private bathroom. With Marshall gone and his door closed, Carlisle began
rummaging through his things searching for his notebook, his most prized possession with
sketches, writing and memories of life before Abby left him. He could not find the well-loved
notebook anywhere. He couldn’t have possibly left it at home, he would never forget the last
thing Abby gave him. Perhaps it was in his car, he would go look for it tomorrow. A small knock
at the door startled him. When he opened it, the hallway was empty in either direction, though he
had the distinct feeling he was being watched from a distance. Shaking the eeriness of the
absolute quiet, he looked down to find a journal laying on the floor. Though not his own, he
picked it up and flipped through it, shutting the door as he did. Seeing nothing else to do, he

The Silent 3

turned his iPod on, quietly, and sat down on the bed to write. He would continue the search for
his own at a later time.
June 7th
It’s been four days since I left Abby in the cemetery. Strained as our relationship may have been, she was
everything to me. I already miss her so much. I just can’t imagine my life without her.

Carlisle could see the black swirls around him, could see the white box holding his life.
He could feel the tension.The anger. The hatred. He could hear the “poor dear”, “so sad”,
“bless their hearts” coming from visitors. But most importantly, he could hear Abby’s desperate
sobs as they buried the tiny infant who never even took a first breath. A baby girl dead, doing
what her conception was intended for, saving a marriage. Carlisle never wanted the child, until
she was gone. Now he already missed her. Now he wanted her more than anything else in this
world. He was finally her dad, and he wanted nothing more than to find a way to give her a
sibling and Abby the child she so desperately wanted.
Suddenly, the lights all shut off and a hushing noise came seemingly from the air. It
wasn’t long before Carlisle had fallen asleep, journal forgotten and thrown on the floor.
The following day, Carlisle woke late and hungry, having not eaten since the morning
before. He pushed the green button on the box hanging directly above his tiny dresser. He
opened his door and waited anxiously for the food to be delivered. It was only a few moments
before Marshall, looking slightly more tired than the day before, set the tray on Carlisle’s desk.
Carlisle wanted to ask him if he was feeling well, but was silenced by another glare. Though
given the most luxurious meal of mashed potatoes and chicken fried steak with gravy, the taste
was lost to him. Truth be told, he wasn’t even sure if he was hungry or if his body just told him
he was out of habit.

The Silent 4

After finishing most of the tasteless meal, Carlisle wandered down to the empty reception
area. There he found three tables and a couple of leather couches. The tables each had a game or
puzzle laying on top. He found a puzzle of three cats playing with balloons. That’s just silly,
their claws would pop the balloons. Marshall came into the room, swept up the puzzle and
presented a new one with a multi-faceted world in black and white. Now this is better. Abby
would love this scene. Carlisle had never felt so relaxed in all his thirty-six years. He finished the
puzzle and Marshall brought him another, this one filled with hot air balloons floating like
bobbers in water, which he finished within hours. The last one he was given was one of his own
beloved Abby, staring up at him from the broken pieces. He put the pieces together as though
he’d done so a thousand times before. Each and every detail of her face flashing in front of him
in a strange permanence, dancing in and out of the tiny puddles forming on most of the pieces.
Her solemn expression standing alone, watching, bestowing the guilt he knew deserved.
Carlisle looked down on his ever-gorgeous wife. Her hair laid in a tangled, ratted mess
around her, but she was beautiful none the less. Thank God she couldn’t see herself now. She’d
never forgive him for looking at her like this. She was pale, no rosiness to her normally excitable
face. Her lips shrunken, shriveled from dehydration. Her eyes puffy from exertion. And her
stomach flat. The realization that they had lost a second child sinking in with terrifying force.
The four-months she had spent in agony with their rainbow baby now wasted and gone, as if they
never existed.
He stayed there, doing nothing in particular, until Marshall glared at him indicating it was
time to leave. His completed puzzles now adorned the walls of his room, the one of Abby
somehow more haunting than it had been as he put it together, the pieces bubbled where tears
had splashed. The lights flicked off and the whooshing came back into the air.

The Silent 5

The next two months passed in ritual. Each morning he kissed Abby and mumbled almost
indiscernibly that he loved her and was counting down the days until he could see her again.
Then he would eat and journal, get glared at by Marshall repeatedly, go to the reception hall
where he would eat his lunch and dinner, and then go to bed.
My darling Abby,
I miss you so much. I almost wish this month would end already, as relaxing as this has been, just so I can
see you again. I miss your singing as you cook some crazy concoction that winds up tasting amazing. I want to try to
start our family when I get back. I know you have felt just so terrible since we lost little nugget, and I have too,
sweetie. But I really feel like this time it could be different, I think we might be able to go full-term this time. We can
make it; I know we can. We have to.

His meals started dwindling with each one, but most had been filling despite looking like
nothing more than haggis (a disgusting delicacy he had once been coerced into trying while on a
fraternity trip).
That three months had passed did not occur to him as he wrote in his journal before
breakfast on a particularly difficult morning, which had started with the image of two graves,
unmarked, dancing on his nerves, seemingly in every corner of his room.
Every day here is starting to feel like a vacation in a haunted memory from which there is no escape. I still
think of Abby every day, but except the picture of her, she is slipping away from me. I wish I could say I was strong
enough, but I’m just so angry all the time, and mostly at her. She left me to this place all alone.

He ordered breakfast from an increasingly ragged-looking Marshall, who seemed to be
working at all times of the day. This would be the last day he would visit the reception center. He
sat down to a puzzle at the farthest end of the room, the two unmarked graves from his dream
taunting his world, an obsession he could not place or escape. He finished all but two pieces,
which seemed to be missing. He left the room frustrated and defeated. The graves taking their
place on the wall beside Abby, daring him to hate them both. He spent the day watching them,

The Silent 6

willing them to disappear, to leave his beloved alone and stop following him. His instinct told
him, though, that he was being devoured by them, and there was nothing he could do about it.
The beginning of the fourth month at The Silent seemed akin to an attack on the senses,
quietly invading his mind, body and soul. He grew angrier by the day when given more and more
unworthy meals. The final bend to break him came as he clicked the play button more times than
necessary on his iPod and even tried changing songs, but they all screamed at him in silence. It
was as if his iPod had suddenly become incapable of doing anything at all. He plugged it in, and
nothing happened. He knew he had charged it the night before. Hadn’t he? It was his only joy in
the day, surely he hadn’t forgotten. After attempting the buttons several more times, he picked up
the device and let it fly across the room. It wasn’t until he heard the glass breaking that he
thought of his wife. He looked to the puzzle, and through blurred eyes, stared at the pieces
cutting into his beloved’s face. Marshall slowly, sadly opened the door, and Carlisle knew he
was collecting the now shattered, useless player. Stripping the final connection to the outside
world. Taking the only reminder of life beyond The Silent. There was nothing to be done, so he
shrugged and went back to his breakfast, resigned to his fate. Too lost to care. Alive just enough
to beg for mercy.
God, if you exist, let me leave this place. I miss my Abby. Just let me have her back. Let her come back to
me. Let her come find me and take me from this hell hole. I swear, I will take our children to church every single
week, and even through the weekdays. Please, I’m begging you. Take me from here and give me back my love, and I
will do everything possible to serve you.

By the middle of the fifth month, his hair no longer bounced. His journal forgotten with
the desperate, unanswered cries of its last entry. He worked to eat only the least molded pieces of
food he was served, but in the end gave it up. His clothes clinging to him with the last effort their
shredded threads could manage on his diminishing form. He once tried to push his food back to

The Silent 7

Marshall, trying to ask for something else without getting in trouble. Marshall shook his sickly
head and set it on Marshall’s desk, gazing longingly at it.
It was the morning of another unremarkable, uncounted day that Marshall brought him a
letter. It read: Dear Mr. Graphs, as you know, you have signed on for an indefinite stay. Carlisle
didn’t remember signing anything at all, but it didn’t matter in the end. He was doomed to live
the life they planned for him. It has been brought to our notice that you are no longer thriving,
and we feel it would be in your best interest to be working alongside Marshall. You will be
expected to wake up with him and do as he indicates until you are back to a normal health. You
will also be bunking with him in the recovery wards. Yours Truly, Silent Staff.
Carlisle found that while he read, Marshall had already packed up his things. They
sloshed to the basement, only to find that it was a dark, dingy grey, like a picture of a hundredyear-old hospital. There was dirt on the walls and floors. The churning in his stomach spurred on
by the smell of mildew, wet animal and a floral shop, as if flowers could ever cover the grime.
Every corner seemed to be beckoning to him with eyes unseen. Sleeping bodies lay in their beds
through open doors, barely visible beneath their grungy, sagging blankets. The smells and sights
proved too much for his stomach, and he retched what little there was against an unsuspecting
Marshall, earning him another of Marshall’s infamous glares. They reached Marshall’s quarters,
which were significantly smaller than Carlisle’s previous arrangement and had twice the amount
of furniture. A dresser, bed and portable closet for each of them. Down the hallway, a scream
suddenly broke the silence. Carlisle jumped at the abrupt noise, having almost forgotten what
noise sounded like.
“It ain’t fair! I won’t do it no more!” A faded black-haired woman in slacks and a blue
blouse burst towards them. “It ain’t fair, I tell you!” She paused long enough to stare

The Silent 8

intentionally into Carlisle’s eyes, almost as if she recognized him. “Run, Mr. Graphs. Run.” Two
guards came around the corner armed with rifles and tasers and fought her back to her quarters,
her screeches of “RUN” echoed down the hallway. Carlisle had never seen guards before that
moment, and yet, somehow it seemed fitting. He felt as if he’d known they were there all along.
Carlisle’s pondering of the existence of guards was interrupted by a rumbling rolling down the
hallway, Marshall pulled Carlisle in the room in time for them both to watch a stampede of
broken, hollow bodies gathering enough strength to force their way to a door which had gone
unnoticed by Carlisle. The guards were no match for the mass confusion that followed. Several
guards even joined in the chaos as they disappeared out the small door at the end of the hallway.
Carlisle turned to Marshall to ask what was happening, but he knew there would be no response,
and so turned back to watch the ever-growing stampede, disappearing without a trace to the
whisper of a life they were desperate to find.
Within weeks, Carlisle had withered away to almost nothing, and Marshall had been
moved from their shared quarters to the corridor where the suit and blouse lady had incited a riot
all that time ago. Carlisle served masters who would one day be in the same position, this
knowledge encouraged him to serve them as well, if not better than, Marshall had him until that
fateful day, even though his own body was fighting him. He could not pinpoint why he was still
here; he would occasionally think that he should have left by now. He would think of those poor,
sad bodies who had escaped the depressive hell he found himself dwelling in. He would long to
leave through the door to find a life outside of The Silent, if such a thing existed. But he couldn’t
drag his worn-out body more than five steps towards the door. Always drawn back to his fate of
servitude for The Silent. He had watched as several staff members tried to talk or leave and were
vanished. Carlisle knew that he did not want to be ‘disappeared,’ whatever that entailed.

The Silent 9

One day a guard came to Carlisle with the letter. Dear Carlisle, As you know, Marshall
was no longer capable of carrying out his responsibilities. He was moved to the upcare units and
has since passed. Please take this second letter to Mr. Jones, as he will now be your assistant.
Yours Truly, Silent Staff.
Carlisle went to room 5B and held out the letter for Mr. Jones who read while Carlisle
packed up his things, glancing around at the puzzles. The nagging of a memory of former joy
screamed to be remembered. Just as quickly as the strange thought came, it was gone. They
followed the grungy hallway to Carlisle’s quarters. Mr. Jones handled the grunge and smell far
better than Carlisle had back before the servant life.
When not called by his masters, Carlisle would stare at the puzzle of the beautiful girl on
the wall and wonder how in the world the glass was broken, and why the two graves hanging in
their own frame beside her seemed to be her most striking accessory.
The day came that Carlisle and his puzzles were moved to the dreaded upcare unit, where
he was starved and ignored. On the Monday of the seventh week in the unit, Carlisle passed,
happy in the knowledge that he had served The Silent and his masters well. The girl in the
picture smiled, which he could not remember having seen. The ghost of an infant suddenly on
her shoulder, turning its face from the onlookers. She seemed to beckon to him, welcoming him
to join her. Begging him to leave the masters he had acquired since her passing.


