Detective  Jake  Cartwright’s  yellow  tipped  fingers  hovered  over  the  vast  pool  
of  blood  on  the  concrete.  The  blood’s  warmth  lingered.  He  stood  up  from  his  crouch,  
reached  back  to  burrow  through  a  pile  of  takeout  bags  in  the  front  seat  of  his  
Bonneville,  and  grabbed  his  withered  notebook.  
Jake  took  a  last  heavy  drag  off  of  the  lit  cigarette  from  his  ashtray  before  he  
flicked  it  on  the  ground.  He  exhaled  a  long  plume  of  smoke  and  tossed  back  his  
overgrown  hair.  A  small  group  of  onlookers  had  formed  in  front  of  The  Roasters  
Café,  now  blocked  off  by  squad  cars  and  yellow  tape;  hopefully  he  could  make  his  
way  out  before  the  first  news  van  arrived.    
“Just  great.”  Jake  muttered.    
Sgt.  Ruiz,  a  thickset  officer  with  slick  black  hair  and  built  like  a  Mack  Truck,  
took  out  his  flipbook  to  brief  Detective  Cartwright.    
Ruiz  spoke  sternly,  “Hey  Jake.  We  got  two  males,  light  color  skin,  multiple  
tattoos  on  both,  loose  fitting  blue  jeans,  one  with  a  small  flame  neck  tattoo.  He’s  
taller,  about  6’2”,  with  shoulder  length  hair.  His  pal  must  have  been  about  5’9”,  in  a  
navy  button  down,  he  had  a  grown  out  crew  cut  and  goatee.  Obviously  both  of  these  
guys  were  packing.”  
“Thanks  Eddie.  Tell  your  brother  thanks  for  working  on  my  engine,”  Jake  
replied.  
“No  problem,  let’s  just  be  sure  to  get  this  one  sealed  up.”  
Cartwright  knew  Ruiz  was  a  pure  blue  blood  who  enjoyed  any  opportunity  to  
razz  him,  especially  about  Jake’s  last  two  cases  that  were  thrown  out  on  
technicalities,  something  about  papers  not  being  filed  properly.    
The  array  of  shell  casings  smattered  on  the  sidewalk  signaled  to  Jake  that  he  
was  going  to  walk  into  carnage.  With  his  notepad  ready  he  opened  the  café  door  and  
made  a  half-­‐hearted  sign  of  the  cross  as  he  traversed  the  threshold.  Jake’s  heartbeat  
quickened.  The  rank  smell  of  dried  blood,  burnt  coffee,  and  punctured  drywall  
overtook  his  nostrils.  Jake  maneuvered  his  eyes  around  the  room  to  gather  the  
number  and  possible  ages  of  victims,  bullet  holes  through  the  glass,  and  other  scene  
details.    
“These  punks,”  Jake  snarled  as  he  scratched  his  notes.  His  mouth  and  lips  
pursed.    He  stalked  back  and  forth,  dodging  college  sweatshirts  slung  on  the  backs  of  
chairs.  The  two  barista  stations  shimmered  in  the  day’s  sunset  and  Jake  saw  a  slug  
stuck  in  the  machine.  He  noticed  how  tightly  his  hands  were  clenched  as  he  quickly  
grabbed  a  pastry  bag  and  his  keys  so  he  could  pry  it  out.  As  he  popped  the  slug  out,  
he  saw  two  figures  in  the  shiny  chrome  finish  of  the  espresso  machine.  
  

Jake  spun  around  as  two  guys  hopped  into  a  red  Ford  pickup.  He  couldn’t  

make  out  the  passenger,  but  the  driver,  his  stringy  hair  under  a  Cardinals  hat,  
looked  back  to  pull  out.  When  he  turned,  it  revealed  a  tattoo  of  a  small  flame  on  his  
neck,  an  image  that  looked  familiar  but  Jake  could  not  place  it.  Jake  thrust  his  
belongings  into  his  trench  coat,  bolted  toward  the  door  with  thundering  footsteps;  
his  voice  crescendoed  as  he  shoved  the  door  open.  “RUIZ!”  
The  chase  was  on.    
The  sergeant  turned  his  head  as  Jake  pointed  at  the  red  truck  pulling  into  
traffic.  Jake  clutched  his  keys  as  he  raced  to  the  driver  side  of  his  Bonneville.  In  
seconds,  the  door  slammed.  Ruiz  hurried  down  the  street  toward  his  squad  car,  
barking  the  description  into  his  CB.    
Jake  flipped  on  his  lights  and  squealed  his  tires  as  he  jerked  his  car  to  follow  
the  truck.  Cartwright  saw  the  driver  turn  his  head  to  look  back  and  aggressively  
shake  the  passenger.    The  truck  slowed  down  and  then  accelerated  to  run  through  
the  first  light.  Jake  sped  through  in  a  near  miss  with  cross  traffic.    The  red  Ford  
bobbed  and  weaved  through  traffic  in  the  sleepy  lakeside  town.  Jake  stayed  
steadfast  with  sirens  going.  He  veered  and  dodged  his  car  around  the  others.  Sweat  
dripped  as  he  kept  pace  with  the  suspects.  Jake  could  not  escape  the  searing  image  
of  the  flame  tattoo.  Then  the  middle  window  of  the  truck  slid  open  and  a  black  
square-­‐edged  gun  pointed  at  him.    
Jake  swerved  and  ducked  as  he  heard  the  cracking  of  shots.  One  bullet,  a  
complete  miss,  just  a  ping  off  the  cement.  The  second,  a  shattering  of  headlight  glass  
filled  the  emptiness  of  the  street.  The  final  round  popped  through  the  passenger  
side  glass  and  buried  deep  into  the  grey  faux  leather  backseat.  Jake  slammed  his  
brakes,  pulled  out  his  gun,  and  turned  up  his  scanner.    
The  Ford  truck  rubbed  off  of  the  front  end  of  a  station  wagon.  The  suspects  
made  a  turn  toward  the  downtown  lake  area  and  the  decaying  industrial  parks.  Jake  
pursued,  tires  squealed  in  the  turn  as  he  hit  hard  on  the  accelerator  once  again.  
According  to  the  radio  chatter  more  police  were  joining  the  pursuit  and  setting  up  a  
perimeter  in  the  area.    
Through  the  graffiti-­‐lined,  vacant,  mazelike  streets,  Detective  Cartwright,  
held  his  silver  9mm  in  his  right  hand  as  he  steered  with  his  left.  He  played  cat  and  

  

3  

Detective  Cartwright  
mouse  with  the  red  truck.  Jake  slowed  his  car  a  bit  as  he  stalked  the  truck  behind  
lake  worn  brick  buildings,  into  the  alleyways,  even  through  an  old  warehouse.  
Finally,  he  looped  back  to  a  main  road  still  a  step  behind.  Impatient,  Detective  
Cartwright  revved  his  engine  and  tried  to  drive  a  reverse  route  from  the  chase  to  get  
the  punks  off  guard,  but  there  was  no  trace  of  the  red  Ford  truck.  Jake  thought  all  
was  lost.  He  stopped  his  Bonneville  and  rolled  down  his  window  to  listen  for  
peculiar  sounds.  Almost  a  minute  passed  before  he  heard  the  screeching  hinge  and  
slam  of  a  heavy  metal  door  in  a  nearby  building.    
Jake’s  circled  and  parked  when  he  saw  the  red  truck  pulled  over  in  an  alley  
behind  a  large,  old  steel  factory.  The  truck  was  empty,  the  doors  swung  open.  He  
radioed  his  location  and  pulled  out  a  fresh  cigarette.  “Finally  an  open  and  shut  arrest  
to  show  Ruiz.”  His  gun  drawn,  back  pressed  against  the  wall,  he  reached  into  his  
pocket  for  his  lighter.  He  pulled  out  the  cool  metal  of  his  father’s  Zippo  to  flick  it  
open.  The  company  logo  caught  his  eye.  The  flame  looked  familiar.  Suddenly  Jake  
heard  a  loud  noise  and  snapped  his  head  toward  the  alley.    
  
  
Sergeant  Ruiz  stood  over  Cartwright  as  he  came  to  “Well,  it  looks  like  they  
got  away  Jake,  and  you  look  like  crap  by  the  way.”  
Even  as  Jake’s  head  spun  he  recognized  Ruiz’s  smug  tone.  Cartwright  sat  up,  
felt  his  sore  mouth  and  back  of  his  head.  As  Jake  patted  himself  he  found  no  trace  his  
keys,  wallet,  phone,  gun,  and  Zippo.  
“Not  for  long,”    Jake  grunted.  

  

4  


