A familiar mesh of students and locals and health professionals stood between
me and the entrance to the café down the street from the university hospital. I brushed
past them and their tendrils of conversation: observations on the latest high-profile
donation to the hospital, plans for the upcoming weekend, fleeting attempts to avoid
discussing the weather. Today’s sundry assortment of pedestrians lined up along the
café’s brick walls would spend all morning waiting for a table. They would spend their
time waiting for people like my friends and I as we lingered and shared our summer
experiences and Fall semester schedules. Regular pre-med talk.
Inside the café, utensils clattered against plates as chairs rocked and scraped
along tile floor. Competing footsteps from patrons and waitstaff synced almost
rhythmically with sounds of outside traffic. Above the clamor floated a cloud of disparate
voices competing to be heard in this mid-sized, open space.
Troy--my boyfriend--spotted me first; his enthusiastic waving drew me to a booth
near the back of the café where Annie, one of my freshman year dorm friends, sat next
to him. Across from her sat Devyani, one of Annie’s friends.
“Sorry I’m late,” I said when I reached the head of the table.
“It’s ok,” said Annie. “Troy was telling us you’d probably be another five minutes,
anyways.”
I rolled my eyes at Troy. "I'm not that late to things,” I breathed. Troy flashed one
of his boyish grins and before I could tease him about his salmon-colored shorts, a
server appeared at our table, as if summoned by my late entrance.
“Are you all ready to order now?” he asked.
My friends glanced at me. I knew if we sent the server away without ordering, in
the middle of a busy café, we might never see him again. I smiled and nodded.
The server turned to Annie, who ordered fruit and oatmeal. Devyani ordered a
Mexican omelette, which at this café meant sliced jalapeños folded into a vegetarian
omelette. I didn’t know Devyani well, only that she was a local and that she was bored
because there was so little to do on campus before classes started. She was the
secretary for Red Cross Club this year; as the vice president of the club, I felt I had at

least some responsibility to screen her. Troy ordered eggs and sausage with whole
wheat bread. His arms weren’t as firm as they had been before he left for break. Not
that I had any right or desire to judge, especially after I ordered a vanilla parfait topped
with sweetened granola.
After the server explained the obvious—the café was busy and our food might
take a little longer to arrive than usual—he disappeared into a throng of patrons, and I
chose that moment to slide into the booth next to Troy. My boyfriend flashed me the
same inviting grin he projected at professors and fraternity brothers. I wanted to reach
forward and fix the few blades of hair that had fallen across his forehead, but my public
timidity retained my hand in my lap. Strange that a couple who dated for almost two
years could become so convincingly formal over a single summer.
“How was Cayman?” I asked him.
“Oh my god,” sputtered Devyani. “You went to the CAYMAN ISLANDS this
summer?”
Troy shrugged. “It wasn’t that amazing. I was stuck doing office work for most of
the day because my dad wanted to be ethical about my credits, or whatever.”
“He got an exemption from the business school to study abroad at his dad’s
company and get class credit for it,” I explained to Devyani.
“What do you mean it wasn’t that amazing?” said Annie, who glared jealously at
Troy. “I saw posts of you scuba diving and biking along the ocean.” She looked at me.
“Why didn’t you go with him?”
“I couldn’t, remember?” I said. “I had to wrap up a few things with my summer
research mentor, so I could submit an abstract for the symposium. Trust me, I wish I
could have visited, even for just a couple days.”
“It’s in the same time zone, right?” Annie asked.
“Only for part of the year,” I said. “During the summer they’re an hour behind.”
“That’s so convenient. You don’t even have to worry about coordinating your
schedules across time zones!” Annie leaned back into her seat, weary with the memory
of a past relationship still weighing heavily upon her. “I was dating this guy in the UK
that I met while doing a summer abroad in London. He was such an amazing guy, and

his teeth weren’t even as bad. The time zone difference completely destroyed the
relationship, though.”
“How many hours was it?”
“They’re four hours ahead, which doesn’t sound bad at first, but when you have
two people with busy lives and extremely different sleeping schedules, there’s like no
time to chat. Plus, I’m pretty sure he was cheating on me by the end of the relationship.”
We all murmured our condolences for her loss. Troy’s eyes flickered to mine, a
half smirk streaked across his face. I allowed myself a moment to feel glad we were
back in the same city.
The door to the restaurant opened every few seconds, allowing a welcome gust
of air to circulate through the humid restaurant, whirling around tables and bodies and
warding off the encroaching summer heat. Next week, we would all dread this relatively
tranquil moment for the relentless schedule that accompanied the onset of classes.
Annie, still straddling a double major in neuroscience and linguistics, had maxed
out her credit allowance for the semester. She was considering asking for an exemption
to take more credits so she could add a mini course on community action and social
change taught in Detroit. Devyani, prioritizing her new positions as Red Cross Club
secretary and treasurer of the Asian Student Organization (ASO), was taking fourteen
credits, partly to attend to her leadership roles, but also so she had more time to study
for the MCAT in January. A competitive score on the MCAT, the medical college
admissions test, was more important than GPA, extracurricular activities--anything one
could ever write in a personal statement. The results of my own MCAT were pending
and I was afraid that, upon seeing my results, I would have to clear my schedule and
join Devyani in studying once again for that seven-hour gateway exam to medical
school.
“I swear,” Devyani said. “Every day of being a pre-med is like having a mini
anxiety attack.”
“What about you, Troy?” Annie said, leaning forward in her chair. “What’s your
schedule like?”

Troy grinned and shifted in his chair. “I mean, it’s nothing like what all of you are
taking. I’ve got a class called business model innovation, another one on professional
relationships, and—” he smirked. “One on how to use Excel.”
“Like, the spreadsheet program?”
He nodded. “Yeah, I guess so.”
Annie leaned back in her chair, exasperated. “I should’ve applied to business
school,” she breathed.
Our food arrived quickly. As the server slid our food onto the table, Devyani
leaned forward and inhaled the overpowering scent of fresh omelette and toast heaped
on the plate in front of her. She waited for each of us take a bite of our food first before
she finally dug her fork into the nearest pile of eggs; after each bite, she was careful to
wipe her mouth with the napkin she kept draped across her lap.
I spooned a glob of parfait into my mouth. The locally sourced yogurt was already
lukewarm, and I wished I had ordered Troy’s eggs and sausage, even if the heaping
slab of grease in front of him was even worse for me than my parfait.
Annie was the first one to spot the familiar face as it approached our table. Troy
and Devyani followed Annie’s gaze, and although they weren’t familiar with the
individual ebbing and flowing through the crowd, I was sure they had overheard his
name at least once in pre-med conversation.
“Ravi!” Annie yelled out to him. “How are you? What are you doing here?”
Ravi Hussain was supposed to be starting classes at a mid-tier medical school
on the East Coast at this point in the year. The former president of the Red Cross Club,
he had doubled the number of campus blood drives and expanded our winter formal
into a campus-wide event. As a student council representative, he had passed
measures to reduce university carbon emissions and he had successfully petitioned the
university to divest from companies that conduct business with Israel. Ravi’s name
graced two scientific publications from two separate labs and, last I heard, another
publication was on its way.
Ravi shrugged. “I’m doing okay.” He grinned. “I was hoping to get one last brunch
here before the rush of undergrads, but I guess I’m already too late.”

“Aren’t you supposed to be starting classes right now?” I asked. “What happened
to med school?”
He shrugged again; his face sank ever so slightly. Ravi had graduated last spring
with hopes of attending medical school this Fall. He had applied to 26 schools, armed
with three letters of recommendation from science professors, third author on both
scientific publications, and a 3.8 GPA. Regardless, he had only received a couple
interview offers, and by the end of the cycle, he had found himself with a single waitlist
position at a safety school in southern Illinois.
“Sucks that you didn’t get in man,” said Troy. “Clara told me how it hard it was to
get published at all as an undergrad.”
Ravi’s story was a fear that plagued most, if not all pre-med students. When we
prepared our applications to medical school, spending hours staying up late at night to
study so we could improve our GPA’s by a tenth of a point, remaining at the lab beyond
our required hours to get a possible authorship, we did so to avoid Ravi’s fate.
“Did you apply again this cycle?” Devyani asked.
Ravi nodded. “I’m taking a gap year doing clinical research at the hospital right
now. I applied right when the cycle opened, so hopefully I get better chances this time
around.”
“I don’t understand how you didn’t get in,” Annie breathed. “You did literally
everything. How could they not accept you?”
I tried to ignore the flash of embarrassment that washed over his face, an
embarrassment quickly vanquished by a gleaming white smile. “I heard it was an
especially tough cycle,” he said. “I was talking to some friends and they told me Temple
over-admitted students, so it had to offer a ton of accepted applicants a financial
incentive to take a year off before starting. A lot of competitive people applied last
cycle.”
“We should compare our med school spreadsheets sometime,” I said. “I want to
make sure I’m not applying to the same schools as you did, because there’s no way I’ll
get into schools that turned you down.”

He chuckled at the obvious flattery. “No Clara, you should still apply to where you
want to go,” he said. “As long as we’re both competitive, there’s no reason why a school
wouldn’t accept both of us.”
Ravi glanced towards the entrance and smiled and waved. “That’s my girlfriend
waving me towards a table,” he said to all of us. “See you later, and good luck this
year!”
“Good luck to you too!” we called after Ravi.
Our eyes trailed him until he disappeared into the now dwindling fog of bodies.
Ravi was a fluke. He was one of the few applicants who, despite being completely
capable of contending with the rigors of medical school, managed to fall just short of
receiving a genuine opportunity to prove himself as a member of an incoming class.
“If HE can’t get into medical school, I might as well not even apply this cycle,”
said Devyani as soon as Ravi was out of earshot.
“Oh please, Devyani,” said Annie. “You don’t have anything to worry about. You
basically have a personal statement because of your parents.”
“No, that’s not true at all,” Devyani said. “I mean, I do talk about how going to
India every year has inspired me to want to provide free healthcare to rural populations,
but there are too many of us applying for me to be competitive just because my parents
are immigrants. My dad’s a doctor, so I’m even in the majority of med students who
have a physician in the family.”
Medical schools, already flush with Asian applicants, would see my name, Clara
Chen, and automatically shift my application closer to the rejection pile. As the number
of competitive applicants continued to outpace increasing class sizes, people like Ravi,
competitive to the point of superiority a decade ago, now needed multiple attempts to
achieve acceptance to medical school.
When I looked back down at my food, I realized I had lost my appetite.
“Are you going to take your parfait home with you?” the server asked.
“No thanks,” I smiled. I looked at Troy’s plate, which was already covered with
napkins and silverware.

The line winding around the restaurant’s facade had long ago dwindled to an
infrequent trickle of pleasant-faced patrons carrying biodegradable takeout boxes.
Devyani clutched one of the boxes to her side as we parted ways at the entrance.
“Thanks for letting me come to brunch,” she said. “I probably wouldn’t even be
awake by now if you hadn’t invited me.”
“Oh I KNOW,” said Annie. “I need to sleep in every day this week so I can make
up for all the sleep I’m not going to get this semester.”
“It was good to see you guys again,” said Troy. “Whenever I get bored between
classes I guess I can always find one of you at the med library.”
We stood there in silence for a moment.
“Are you headed back towards campus, Clara?” Annie asked. “Do you want a
ride?”
I shook my head. “No, I’m heading to the library to print some things before
classes.”
“What do you have to print? Everything’s online now.”
“I know,” I said. “But I like to print the syllabi so I have them with me the first day.
It makes me feel like I’m actually carrying something important in my backpack besides
my laptop.”
Annie smiled. “Sure, Clara.” Annie and Devyani waved goodbye and headed to
the parking garage across from the café.
I turned to Troy. “See you tonight?” he asked. I nodded and leaned forward and
hugged him. “See you later,” I said.
I pulled my phone out of my handbag on the way to the library. I knew my score
wouldn’t be released yet. The web site stated that scores would arrive approximately a
month after taking the MCAT, even though there was no reason to have to wait that
long; the test was multiple choice and completely electronic. For all the talk of the time
and effort required to curve and standardized tests for each MCAT cohort, I couldn’t
imagine that shifting a bell curve would take more than a few minutes. I clicked the
refresh button on the toolbar.
Nothing.
One more time.

I gave up.
I slipped my phone back into my handbag and did my best to enjoy the
surrounding landscape. High rises built for student housing dominated the campus
skyline. Lower down my view, I could make out the individual buildings that composed
the bulk of Southern Michigan’s campus. Patches of muted browns and oversaturated
greens dotted my view. In a month or two this same view would transform into a striking
collage of color. Then, a moment later, the leaves would fall, and they would be carried
away in heaping masses by university trucks.
Further up the hill, I spotted two boys roughly my age. One of them pushed the
other, who sat in a wheelchair and wore a hospital gown. I shouldn’t have been
surprised at the sight of them—the hospital bordered campus and it was common to see
patients walk past university dorms—except for an uncanny feeling I couldn’t place.
The boy pushing the wheelchair wore a Sherman G. Whipple School of Business
T-shirt, a pair of boat shoes, and a flat brim hat. As he pushed, he maintained a steady
conversation with the patient in the wheelchair, sometimes bending down and
whispering to the patient. As the wheelchair drew closer, I focused my attention on the
patient in the chair. His hands lay folded in his lap, but they didn’t remain in one place.
They shook, his hands. Trembling across his lap and up his knees, only to slide back
into the crook of his legs. His head twitched as well, lolling from one side to another and
then back again--telltale signs of Parkinson's. But he seemed too young for Parkinson’s.
I searched inside my head for a random fact I had learned in neuroscience last
semester: the average age of onset for Parkinson’s patients was either 50 or 60, and
early onset Parkinson’s could strike patients as early as 40 years old. None of those
numbers even remotely fit the patient in the wheelchair, who was easily half the average
age of onset. And if the patient was in a wheelchair, unable to walk on his own, that
meant he was struggling with the later stages of the disease.
“Excuse me,” I called out to them, although my greeting was directed at the guy
pushing the wheelchair. He stopped at the bottom of the hill, so that the wheelchair
rested on flat ground just before the busy four lane intersection adjacent to the hospital.

I looked at them, realizing that I didn’t know what to say. I had no polite way of
ascertaining their intentions. I glanced quickly at the patient sitting in the chair, and then
at the boy standing behind the wheelchair.
“Are you working as a caregiver?” I asked the boy wearing the business school
shirt. “My name’s Clara, by the way.”
He looked at me and grinned knowingly, but I wasn’t in on the secret. “What’s
your name?” I added quickly.
“Stewart,” said the boy. “And yes, I am his caregiver.” He gestured at the patient
in front of him. “This is Benjamin. He graduated from Southern Michigan last year, from
the business school. I’m a senior at SMU this year.”
Benjamin’s bloodshot eyes rolled lazily up to greet me. I smiled at him and
looked back at Stewart. I didn’t have much interest in becoming a caretaker, but I
wanted to keep that option available in case I needed to bolster my medical school
application, or if I was unable to find a better gap year position.
“How long have you been doing it?” I asked. “How did you get that job? Do you
enjoy it? When are you applying to med school?”
Stewart grimaced at the mention of med school. “I’m applying to PA schools this
spring,” he corrected me. “Nowadays, it’s harder to get into PA school than med
school.” His response explained the grimace. For whatever reason, people applying to
PA schools loved to express disdain for those applying to medical school, as if their
perceived inferiority to pre-med students necessitated retaliatory rancor.
“It’s not even like physicians do any more than PA’s on a daily basis.” He added.
“A lot of the time, when a patient comes into clinic, they’re seeing a PA or a nurse, not a
physician. PA’s can perform most of the same duties as physicians, and in a lot of
clinics, you get paid the same amount. And we don’t have to spend half our lives in
school, either.”
“How did you become a caregiver?” I asked to change the subject.
Stewart hesitated. I watched him swallow the beginnings of a statement, and
trade what he swallowed for another introduction.

“I applied through HomeStead Health, interviewed, and got the position within a
month. They don’t require any kind of license besides CPR training, which they provide
if you don’t already have it when you apply.”
“And was Benjamin assigned to you? What happened to him?”
Stewart hesitated again. I realized that he wasn’t swallowing his words as much
as searching for them somewhere, buried in his mind.
Benjamin grunted. Both of us glanced down at the quivering figure in the
wheelchair.
“Benjamin is suffering from a spontaneous onset of tardive dyskinesia,” Stewart
said, looking ahead to the crosswalk behind me now.
The words came out clipped and rehearsed, as if Steward had been instructed to
say that phrase, and coached until it emerged just like that, word for word.
A cold certainty told me that Stewart would get into PA school. From his façade
of confidence to his rehearsed responses, he must have had someone, some interest,
working in his favor.
“You can play the game even if you don’t believe in it,” Benjamin managed.
“Because you can play it in your own way. You owe it to yourself.”
I looked up and met Stewart’s eyes. “What is he talking about?”
“They don’t see you because they don’t expect you to know anything,” Benjamin
continued.
I glared at Stewart. I wanted him to know I wasn’t leaving until he divulged some
information of value.
Stewart looked down at the sidewalk. “We used a service,” he explained limply.
“What do you mean?” I persisted. “Is it a ghostwriting service? I’m sorry about
asking all these questions.”
Stewart was clearly uncomfortable now. He wanted nothing more than to leave,
shake me loose and continue free of my prying questions.
“Aspiring pre-health students are a relatively constant quantity,” Benjamin
sputtered in the background of our conversation.
I maintained my eye contact with Stewart. I wanted him to give me contact
information--a phone number, a name, even an email address.

“For each one who decides to embark on the path to some health profession,”
Benjamin continued. Stewart looked up, but when he did, he looked behind me to the
other side of the crosswalk. “...another one capitulates and chooses mid-tier
employment,” Benjamin finished.
“We have to get going,” Stewart said. He bid me goodbye and quickly wheeled
Benjamin towards the crosswalk behind me. Before he walked out of earshot, I heard
him lean down to Benjamin and hiss, “You don’t need to tell them anything--they already
get enough help with the application process.”
I didn’t allow myself to look back at them; I was too overwhelmed by my own
thoughts to follow the pair before campus swallowed them up. A diagnosis of
Parkinson’s didn’t make sense at all in an individual that young, but a disease like
Huntington’s acted differently. As Huntington’s progressed through generations of a
family, the symptoms of the disease manifested earlier and earlier, a phenomenon
known as anticipation.
I took out my phone and searched for Stewart and Benjamin and HomeStead
Health; the first search result revealed a directory of caregivers in the area where, in the
description, I read that Benjamin’s clinical diagnosis was Huntington’s Disease. If
tardive dyskinesia could be induced in a patient with Haldol and then diagnosed
deliberately as Huntington’s, then the assigned caregiver would care for a patient with a
terminal, debilitating disease. If that caregiver was applying to a health professional
school--such as PA school--then that experience alone would form a narrative durable
enough to serve as the bulk of a personal statement. Any admissions interview question
could be parried with a response leading back to the caregiver’s experience with the
patient. Other extracurricular activities no longer mattered. Even demonstrations of
sympathy and emotional intelligence became optional. Stewart had a longitudinal
clinical experience as an undergraduate student, and he would get into any PA school
he wanted while other, more typical pre-health students like Ravi and I, would be
overlooked as schools scrambled to accept more applicants like Stewart.
The implications of the situation crept in, slowly at first, then as an overwhelming
tide of guilt. They had fabricated an entire clinical experience to get into graduate
school, where they would be seeing and treating actual patients. I had witnessed an

ethically questionable arrangement and I was responsible for taking some kind action
to—what, solve this mystery? Both boys had vanished, and the directory for HomeStead
Health disappeared when I turned off my phone screen. I thought back to Ravi, standing
at the head of our table, mustering the courage to apply again to medical school. I
thought of my unwritten personal statement, and how it would take me months to craft
five mediocre paragraphs that an admissions committee member would read in five
minutes. I realized suddenly that I understood their choice, their resolve to thrust
themselves into PA school no matter the cost.
I tried refreshing the test site page again as I walked back to my apartment,
hoping irrationally that my MCAT score would eventually appear on the screen. I
resolved never to compromise my morals when I became a physician.


