My cousin, Ginger, pulls the fake ID out her faux leopard-skin purse and waves it
proudly toward me. She sits next to me on my bed, crosses one hairy leg in black fishnets over
the other and pumps the top leg while I memorize information.
“Pretend I’m the bouncer,” she says after a minute, squaring her broad shoulders toward
me. “What’s your zipcode?”
Ginger is 6’1” without her heels, but the caked-on foundation, blue eye shadow and
fishnets don’t exactly scream bouncer. I stifle a laugh.
I flip the fake ID over, so I don’t cheat. “02271.”
“What year were you born?” Where I sit on my bed, Ginger stands up and towers over
me, attempting the intimidation tactics of a doorman at a club. Still, even when Gabe is not
dressed in drag, as Ginger, he is not the most intimidating presence on the planet.
“1995.” The date trips clumsily out of my mouth. To get into Ginger’s show, I have to
look like I am 21 when I have a hard enough time with 17 ½.
“What’s your sign?” she says.
“Taurus.”
“Yes! Your birthday doesn’t change—just the year. Good work, Anelle. They’ll let you
in, no problem.” She slides a box of tissues off my bureau and tosses them to me. “Here, stuff
some of these in your bra.”

“But I like my breasts just the way they are,” I say, because I do. Who wants them
bouncing around all obscenely when I’m jogging? Who wants to dig a hole in the sand for them
when I lay on my stomach at the beach?
“Stuffing your bra will make you look older,” my cousin insists. She turns back toward
my bureau mirror and gasps. “Why didn’t you tell me I missed a whole patch right here?” She
points toward a spot of bristly black beard. “I am meticulous about these things!”
I stand up and hand her a razor I shaved my legs with the day before. It’s not ideal but it
will have to do.
She grimaces but snatches the razor.
I watch her consider the stray facial hair in the mirror. I say, “Ging, you’re going to steal
the show.”
She sighs, then turns to me. “This is my debut, Anelle. I must dazzle!”
I pluck some tissues out of the box. “You’ll be awesome.”
Gabe has dressed as Ginger many times before. Before he moved out of our house three
years ago, I used to help my cousin get ready before big nights out on the town—zippering up
the dress, clasping gaudy jewelry, things like that. He wears a suit and tie to work at the real
estate agency, but when Gabe dresses in drag, his friends address him as Ginger. For respect. I
still can’t help seeing Gabe under the foundation and blue eye shadow. He’d probably be so
offended if I told him it was like seeing his alter ego, a split personality or something. Because
Gabe as Ginger is not a condition that needs to be treated. And I know that. Sometimes I wish I
could be as girly as Ginger is, with her feminine strut and New York posh giggle.

I look up at my cousin as she leans into the mirror. Ginger has planned the Alliance for
Housing and Healing fundraiser for years, commissioning donors for a silent auction, organizing
the lip sync line-up, keeping costumes in order. But she’s never performed. She lifts the
quivering razor to the small patch of wiry facial hair, and I know she is nervous.

“They don’t teach you culture like this in school,” Ginger says, as we wait in line to get
in the Care Bear Lounge for the drag show. A celebrity air eclipses the nerves she exposed at
home. She fields kisses from throngs of people while we stand outside the club. “This is the most
important homework assignment of the year, Cousin,” she says to me.
As her friends fawn over her purse and shoes, I consider how my cousin has never asked
me questions about my sexual orientation, even when I told her I joined our high school’s GayStraight Alliance. Maybe Ginger knows I don’t have many concrete things to say on the subject.
I’ve had a few boyfriends, sure, but I did kiss Olivia during Truth or Dare at a slumber party. But
kissing a girl doesn’t automatically make me a lesbian. In the Gay-Straight Alliance there are
plenty of members who haven’t really made up their minds yet. I’m still learning about my
options, I guess, and avoiding labels. Maybe my cousin thinks the drag performance fundraiser
will help me clear things up.
In line, I adjust the stuffed bra one more time and rehearse the facts on the fake ID. But
the bouncer hardly looks at me or my ID because Ginger, in her commanding presence, pulls
people toward her like a magnet. The bouncer pulls my arm through the crowd and stamps my
hand as Ginger leads me through the entrance.

We find a seat for me along the wall and close to the stage, at a low rectangular table that
looks like the Care Bear Lounge inherited from a chain restaurant.
“I have to go backstage now,” Ginger says. “You’re hot. You’re young. Don’t let anyone
talk you into anything. And under no circumstance are you to leave this building without me.
You’re parents think we’re at a late movie. You’re lucky they said you could sleep at my house
on a school night. And don’t think I forgot about trigonometry final tomorrow.”
“Yes, Mother,” I tease.
“Seriously, daa-ling.” She flips the ends of her blonde wig off her collarbone. “I would
feel guilty if you were abducted.”
I feel for a second like a dork, alone at a table meant for four. It makes me feel better that
no one knows me, though, so I don’t care as much as I normally would’ve at, say, the lunch table
at school or something. I can’t wallow in being a loner dork for too long anyway, though,
because a short-ish man with ultra-muscles and a shiny bald head gallops down the path between
the tables. He’s sporting a pink bow tie and a pink sequins thong.
Only.
He drops and does push-ups while on-lookers holler his repetition count. People crowd
around him, but I have a perfect spot because he’s right next to my table. He slows down around
push-up seventeen.
That’s when Kim Kardashian busts (pun intended) through the sea of people and wedges
a ten-dollar bill under the elastic of Pink Bow Tie’s thong.

	  Not	  Your	  Mother’s	  Fundraiser	  5	  
	  

Okay, it is a girl who looks very much like Kim Kardashian—tan, full-lipped, booty-fied
and everything.
Open-mouthed, I look at Ginger.
“Enjoy the show!” Ginger blows me an exaggerated kiss and strides away.
Pink Bow-Tie pushes himself especially high, claps in mid-air, and comes down on one
arm only. One handed pushups are impressive even without wearing a pink thong. More people
gather, and Pink Bow-Tie collects an impressive wad of cash in the string of his thong. But my
eyes are fixed on the Kim Kardashian look-alike who tucked those first bills in there.
Kim K.’s back is to Pink Bow-Tie now, which gives me a good view of her tight miniskirt. It accentuates her voluptuous hips and her round butt. My friends and I recently debated
about the birth butt or implant butt of Kim Kardashian for a whole lunch period. I ogle at this
Kim’s assets until I catch myself staring. Wondering why I’m staring at her ass gets in the way
of letting me enjoy the vision. Yes, I had noticed how Lena’s legs lunged toward the ball during
our high school basketball practices. Yes, I had touched tongues with Ivy on a field trip. But this
gawking is out of admiration I think. Or envy (I will never be that curvy). But it’s more, a
tempestuous desire that she look back at me. She slides her hand down a man’s chest and I wish
it is my chest, even if she’d feel the tissues. The man runs his hand down her back and rests it on
her hip.
When my eyes rise, she’s looking over her shoulder straight at me. What can I do but
smile? A flirty smile, I’ll admit. It is Kim Kardashian, for crying out loud. I mean, I don’t
necessarily even approve of what Kim Kardashian stands for, on that stupid reality TV show and
everything. But here, in front of me, it’s impossible to admit that this girl is not hot. Her sienna

	  Not	  Your	  Mother’s	  Fundraiser	  6	  
	  

hair falls in loose curls, her full lips fit perfectly on her face, the black of her eyeliner boasts big,
dark eyes.
And then our moment is over.
She spins her head around to her friends. I return my attention to Pink Bow-Tie, who is
now on his knees hugging the legs of an older man with a blue martini. Blue Martini Man
attempts to sip his cocktail and blue liquid drips onto Pink Bow-Tie’s small, glistening head.
And Kim’s walking toward me. We catch eyes. She swings her hips slowly and my
cheeks singe hot. As she inches closer, she blinks. Fake eyelashes.
She stops at my table. Leans against it with her thighs. She’s probably looking at me, but
I can’t take my eyes off the place where the table meets her legs and the—bulge?
She has a penis.
I don’t have time to ponder whether this makes my attraction to her more or less
understandable because she says, “Mind if I sit down?”
She doesn’t wait for my answer. She lowers her generous backside slowly, deliberately
into the plastic chair next to mine.
While the emcee says his introduction, Kim learns that I am here to see Ginger, a
personal friend of hers she assures me. Kim soon knows this is my first time in the Care Bear
Lounge, I am a Taurus and I go to UConn (they have a great women’s basketball team). Kim has
actually adopted the real Kim’s identity so everything she tells me is really stuff I’d already read
or heard about Kim Kardashian. Her sex tapes leaked for public viewing on the internet; her
husband, Kanye, and she are fighting; she needs a new outfit for her dog, a boxer named Rocky.

	  Not	  Your	  Mother’s	  Fundraiser	  7	  
	  

“I’m going to buy you a ring,” she says. “It will look so nice—there.”
My hands are folded on the table and she pats my naked ring finger.
My heart and stomach flip-flop. I’m freefalling.
“I think we could have a lot of fun.” She rests her hand on mine.
This, I suppose, would have been a perfect time to take Ginger’s advice and duck away
from anyone who hit on me. But I’ll admit, I am captivated. She’s toying with me, I know. Drag
queens aren’t supposed to be hot for girls like me, though, are they? But what does “girls like
me” mean anyway? And these fantasies about Kim Kardashian whirling through my mind right
now? Even with the male paraphernalia? I’m not sure any label matches the way I’m feeling
about this. They haven’t talked about this kind of attraction yet in the school GSA. Confusion
and excitement battle in my belly.
The music pumps through speakers and I recognize this Barbara Streisand song. Ginger
and I wail it together often. Ginger pokes one long, fishnet leg out from the curtain and into the
audience’s sight. Applause erupts.
“She’s famous, you know?” Kim clutches my thigh with her red painted fingernails.
“Barbara Streisand?” My focus on Ginger is slipping as I think how there is only one
layer between Kim’s fingers and my bare thigh.
Kim turns her attention to the stage. “No, Peaches. Ginger. She’s famous. She started this
whole thing. The organization. The fundraisers. The community service. But she’s a backstage
gal usually. This is her on-stage debut.”

	  Not	  Your	  Mother’s	  Fundraiser	  8	  
	  

The dim lights of the Care Bare Lounge encourage me to take one hand off the table and
rest it on top of Kim’s hand, which is still on my thigh. Electric. I smile at her coolly, then focus
on Ginger. I have waited years to see Ginger in action, after all. Ginger throws her head back at
the high notes; she holds a fist to her chest at poignantly heart-breaking moments. She stretches
her arms toward the crowd and, after the final lip-synched note, blows me a kiss just like the one
she gave when I first sat down.
A friend of Kim’s comes over with a pink cocktail. Kim curls her tongue around the
straw with her eyes on me and sips. She offers the drink to me, but I decline. She raises an
eyebrow and caresses my cheek.
Ginger comes to my table after her first number. She glances down at Kim’s hand on my
thigh and I hope she won’t crack Kim in two later. Ginger’s friends whisk her this way and that,
fawning over her performance and whistling for the other performers.
I try my best to stay focused on the other stage performers, mostly big drag queens in
boas and beautiful dresses lip-synching to various show numbers or classic ballads. Pink BowTie comes around again during intermission and raises at least one hundred dollars between his
butt cheeks.
Soon, Ginger is back stage, changing for her next number, so I circle the bar with Kim
and she leads me by the hand the whole way. Many, but not all, of her friends greet me kindly.
Judging by the raised eyebrows and head nods, clearly some of them have a hard time seeing
how Kim and I connect. But as long as Kim leans her head on my shoulder, and as long as she
squeezes my hand, I don’t care. I remind myself to look around, journalist style; I remind myself
to absorb all of this “culture,” like Ginger advises, but my energy runs toward Kim, who stands

	  Not	  Your	  Mother’s	  Fundraiser	  9	  
	  

maybe four inches taller than me in her stilettos. Sweet musk wafts off her when she pulls me
into her and whispers in my ear.
A tall woman in a black leather jacket speeds toward us and says, “Kim, Baby, let’s share
a smoke.”
“Naaa. I’ll stay inside with this doll.” Paris pulls me tighter around the waist.
“How do you know I don’t smoke?” I ask.
“Even if you want to, I wouldn’t let you. You’re too beautiful.”
She is toying with me again, and I let her. “You’re beautiful too,” I say. The rouge on one
of her cheeks is thicker than the other. It makes me want her even more.
A duet comes on stage, Ginger and another performer who, under the make up and
permed red wig, I recognize as Ginger’s oldest friend from grade school. Ginger hasn’t told me
that they’d be doing a number together. And I never knew Kevin was Kassandra, as the emcee
announced.
“What are you doing later?” Kim asks, partway through the song.
“Not sure. Ginger probably has a plan.” Like driving me home so I can get to a
Trigonometry final in the morning.
The song ends in a duet of jazz hands and the crowd erupts.
“How’d you like to come home with me?” Kim runs her hand down my hip. “I’m not
usually like this, you know. Men flock to me. But, well, here you are, painting yourself to look
twenty-one and I just can’t help myself!”

	  Not	  Your	  Mother’s	  Fundraiser	  10	  
	  

“I am twenty-one.”
“Honey, please. You also go to UConn, right? Just kiss me.”
It is as simple as that. I kiss Kim Kardashian.
She wraps both arms around my neck. “My doggie, Rocky, always sleeps in my bed. I’d
love for you to meet him.” It is a pick-up line, of course, and I pick it up.
After Ginger’s encore, she finds me next to Kim amid a circle of friends. I plead with
Ginger to take me to the after-hours party at Kim’s house.
“Absolutely not,” Ginger says. She pulls her faux leopard-skin purse on her shoulder. “I
will not be responsible for an F in Trigonometry. Or a broken heart.”
I roll my eyes at my cousin. “I’m not in love with her,” I say, when Kim’s head is turned.
I can tell Ginger doesn’t believe me. I don’t believe myself. I lick some of Kim’s cherry lip gloss
off my top lip.
“Say goodnight to your sweetheart,” Ginger says so Kim can hear.
“Oh, Baby, leaving so soon?” Kim fingers the strap of my tank top. Ginger tenses beside
me.
“She is a baby,” says Ginger, and she pulls me toward the exit.
On our way out the door, the bartender yells, “You were brilliant, Ginger Lee!” and the
bar claps for her again.
Kim blows me a kiss when I turn back.

	  Not	  Your	  Mother’s	  Fundraiser	  11	  
	  

My cousin should have let me go to the after party. I don’t sleep anyway. I lay on Gabe’s
couch, staring at his white stucco ceiling and playing the kiss over in my mind. Is it Kim
Kardashian I kissed or the man underneath? My complicated desire keeps me awake until
sunrise. I never open that trig book.
Well, Ginger promised me culture and I tasted a bit. Just around five-thirty a.m., the taste
drifts off my tongue and I take a nap until my cell phone alarm wakes me up for the trigonometry
test. With the lack of sleep and Kim on the brain, I hardly pass the trigonometry final. I should be
thinking about the functions of the sine and cosine. Instead, I’m thinking about the function of
Kim Kardashian in my life.
	  
	  
	  
	  
	  

	  


