Riley hopped on the foot-trap and wiggled, using her weight to grind it into the hard
earth. When it was level, she stepped off, then scattered pine needles until the metal was hidden
beneath a thatch of green. She brushed her hands off on her coat and smiled. Stakes drilled. Bait
set. Done. The dark patch glared amid the thin white blanket of last night’s snowfall. A death
circle. One of three she’d seeded today: the first on the ridge, the second at the riverbed, and now
this one, at the foot of Cliff Pretty.
She always made sure to finish at the cliff. It loomed over her, a wide, hodge-podge stack
of colored stones, like dyed pancakes. Snow dusted it in heaps, as if the baker had accidentally
spilled the confectioner’s sugar. It was a mellow stack of pancakes, not too tall and not too steep.
Not hard to climb, either, provided you knew your stuff. She’d scaled it plenty of times with
Fifty.
He whined. Riley turned to see the white-and-brown husky mix lying next to the trap,
head on his paws, that sad puppy-dog look in his eyes. His were two different colors. Brown and
blue. Brown for the chocolate lab in him, blue for the husky. Fifty-fifty split. Hence the name.
She remembered the first day she saw those eyes. A month after the car accident, she’d
been ‘allocated’ to her grandparents. She’d never met them before. Their couch had been leather,
hard beneath her skirt, and so cold that even the sunlight streaming into the living room hadn’t
been able to warm away the goosebump-riddled legs. The grandparents, at least, turned out to be
much softer, much warmer, than the couch. They gave her space, fed her, took her out into the
woods on hiking trips to get her mind off the accident, smiled at her when they thought she
needed it. Frowned at her, too, when they thought she needed one of those.
But all that was later. The first indication they were wonderful was Fifty. She’d been
sitting on the couch when the warm ball of fur barreled into her, slathering her in wet dog kisses
and hot, stinky breath. When she finally managed to catch her breath, it was those two wide,
different-colored eyes gazing into hers that made the pain hurt a little bit less.
“Oh, stop it,” she said. “Can’t I savor the moment? We’ve been out here all day.”
Fifty just stared. His eyes seemed to get more sad, if that were possible.
She sighed. “All right, let’s go. You’ll get lunch soon enough, you mutt.”
After making sure her bow was strapped on tight, she hefted her backpack over her
shoulder—much lighter now without the traps—and set off through the snow. Fifty gave a happy
bark and followed. He hated sitting still.
“Only two more stops,” she said, more to motivate herself than to inform Fifty. This was
the hard part. Not the hike, but what lay at the end. Making death circles was easy: the problem
was they really didn’t do that much killing. They left that for her. And she, in turn, left that for
Grandma. Her job was to scout them.
It took thirty minutes of hiking to get to the first circle. She’d planted it Friday. Two days
ago. Almost a guaranteed catch considering the recent surge in the coyote population. Damn
things had ravaged the countryside, wiping out rabbits, white-tails, and elks en masse. They’d
even taken down a bear cub at some point. She found the body yesterday. Nothing but bones.
Riley trudged up the hill, snow crunching under her boots. The first circle lay just ahead,
at the hill’s summit, through an L-shaped thicket of elm trees. She sucked in a cold breath.
Incline combined with a heavy backpack didn’t do her legs any favors. At least the extra hours
spent at the high school fitness center was paying off. They were making good time. If grandma
came today, Riley doubted they’d have got here before sundown.
When they neared the trees, Fifty shot ahead. “Hey, watch it!” she called to his retreating
backside. Her impatient dog’s backend disappeared over the hill.
A gust of wind ruffled the tree canopies. It buffeted her with freezing air, blew her hair
back, cut her face like winter’s fingernails. It brought with it the bitter tang of blood.
“Fifty!” She doubled her pace until she was sprinting up the hill like it was a set of
bleachers. Her legs burned. Sweat stung her eyes despite the cold. The trees were close enough
to touch now; she turned sideways to slip between two grey trunks. Branches criss-crossed her
vision, a web of thick and thin lines. Through them, in the distance, a brown smudge on white.
Red surrounded it. She battered aside the branches. Fifty was smart, Fifty was smart—the
thought repeated in her head, a mantra, a prayer.
Riley pushed free into a clearing and gasped. It wasn’t Fifty caught in the trap, but a
coyote. Although, the thing looked more like it had stepped on a landmine than got its foot
clamped: both its back legs had been ripped off, along with one of its front ones, so that only its
one remaining leg and torso were attached to her trap. The limbs lay scattered around the torso,
connected by entrails torn from the coyote’s disemboweled stomach. Flies buzzed around the
matted fur. There was no head.
Riley gagged, then covered her nose and mouth with her sleeve. It didn’t look like an
animal anymore. More like a peeled pomegranate. She scanned the folds of white, alert for any
sign of what had done this—bear droppings, wolf tracks—but saw nothing.
Branches snapped. Riley dropped to a crouch, ready to run, but relaxed when Fifty burst
from the bushes. He circled around the coyote’s body and bounded over to her, brown leaves
trailing off his coat.
She bent and scratched behind his ears. “Don’t scare me like that.” Fifty cocked his head,
panting. The look on his face seemed to say, “This isn’t good.”
Riley eyed the dead coyote again, then gave the woods beyond one final look-over.
Nothing moved but leaves swaying over snow. “I think we’ll call it for the day, buddy.” She
turned south, towards home, and set off. Fifty followed close behind.

#

#

#

A corner of her grandparent’s house appeared around a bend in the trail. The upper-story
glass patio gleamed amid panels of dark wood and metal. The house was a modern mansion at

Heterochromia / 5
the outer edge of town, just kissing the wilderness. Far enough to feel isolated without actually
being isolated. As Grandpa once said: “I wanted to flirt with the woods, not move in with them.”
Riley squinted. Rays from the afternoon sun gleamed yellow-orange off the patio, setting
the house aflame in a swarm of fake fireflies. Through the glare, she thought she could just make
out Grandpa’s form on one of the outside chairs.
“Almost there,” she said. Fifty panted beside her, his head low. He must be exhausted;
they’d been walking all day. Cliff Pretty and the other traps weren’t too far from the house, but
the spot with the coyote’s body was a far trek north. And then they’d had to hike back. Worth the
time to place the traps, though: the dead coyote proved that. Although, whatever had killed it
might prove a problem later. There had never been a bear or wolves in the area, but if any had
roamed in, then caution was necessary. Maybe Grandma would make her use the rifle on these
trap-checking missions. The thought tightened her chest.
They reached the bushes bordering the driveway. Grandpa, it turned out, was on the
patio. Riley opened her mouth to yell up at him, but before she could, a man appeared in a blur
of dark clothes and tackled Grandpa through the glass wall surrounding the patio, sending shards
spraying outwards like a flower in bloom.
Grandpa hit the driveway with a thud. The man landed on him a second later.
Riley took a step forward. The man sat up. It was their neighbor—Steve. She thought that
was his name. But something was wrong. His complexion was off. It was pasty white, almost
yellow, and the veins in his neck and face bulged from his skin a charcoal-grey, as if he’d been
pumped with ink.

Heterochromia / 6
Steve snarled, lifted his arms up, and brought his fists down hard into the side of
Grandpa’s head. There was a wet smack. He did it again. Something cracked. Blood sprayed
across pavement. Riley ran forward, fell on the curb. The world lurched; gravel dug deep into her
palms, shot through with pain.
Before Steve could hit Grandpa again, Fifty barreled into him, sending him sprawling.
Riley rolled over and ripped her backpack off. She unstrapped her bow. It was pre-nocked.
Steve got to his feet, his face pinched in rage. Black spittle dribbled down his chin. Fifty
growled, his ears flat against his head as he stood tensely in front of Grandpa.
Their neighbor roared and ran forward. Riley whipped her bow up. Released. The arrow
struck Steve’s neck and he crumpled like a puppet after its strings are cut, collapsing face-first in
a heap before Fifty, the arrow shaft snapping beneath him.
Riley bent and pulled another arrow from the quiver strapped to her backpack, then
notched it. Aiming it at Steve’s head, she stepped forward and kicked him. He didn’t move.
Fifty whined. Riley glanced over to see him nudging Grandpa’s face with his muzzle. She
dropped her bow and hurried to his side, turned him onto his back. Blood, dark and wet, matted
his beard and face. One eye was rolled sideways, sucked part-way into its collapsed socket. The
other was open. Empty.
Tears broke her vision. She pressed her face to his chest, her sobs muffled by the fabric
of his coat. He was dead. The thought repeated, over and over, losing meaning with every cycle,
until it seemed just a nonsensical sequence of letters. She squeezed her eyes shut. Any second
now, she would wake up in her bedroom upstairs; Grandpa would call her down for breakfast;

Heterochromia / 7
she would open her door and the smell of waffles would wash over her, accompanied by the
sizzle of bacon and Grandma’s off-tune rendition of Skeeter Davis’s “The End of the World.”
A woman’s scream shattered the fantasy. Riley’s eyes shot open. Grandma.​ S
​ he pushed
herself off Grandpa and grabbed her bow. Fifty was already scratching at the front door. Riley
sprinted to it, ripped it open, and stumbled inside. The foyer and game room to her left were
empty, but the pool table had been heaved onto its side somehow. Pool sticks littered the tile like
twigs, and balls lolled between them, scattered marbles. At the end of the hall, sunlight shone in
from the backyard, illuminating the kitchen. The sliding glass door was open; through it,
shrubbery was visible, green gnawed grey by winter.
No one ever left the back door open. Riley crept forward. Living room, then upstairs.
“Grandma?” she said, low and quiet as she passed the staircase. Shadows darkened the top.
Tightening her fingers on the arrow’s fletching, she turned into the kitchen. The scent of lemon
oil and onions stung her nose. A pot simmered on the stove. Around the island, a cutting board
lay on the tile, strewn with chopped vegetables. No Grandma.
A noise came from upstairs. Grandma. Riley hopped up the steps two at a time. At the
top, she slowed, then crouched. Over the crest of the topmost stair, at the end of the hall, a dull,
repetitive thump whispered from under her grandparent’s closed bedroom door.
Riley crept down the hallway, using the long red rug running down the middle to muffle
her steps. Fifty’s paws clicked behind her. She shot him a look. “You’re too loud.”
Fifty stopped. He cocked his head at her, but didn’t follow.
Her bedroom door was askew to the right. Through it, her bedsheets slumped from the
mattress, disheveled and torn, and her bookcase had been toppled against her mirror, splitting it.

Heterochromia / 8
Colorful copies of her comic collection littered the carpet. She trained her bow on the doorway
as she moved by, alert for a flash of motion; the glint of teeth or black, angry eyes.
The thumping got louder as she approached her grandparent’s bedroom. She stepped over
the bleach-stain in the wood panel just before their door. It always creaked. Holding her breath,
she reached forward and grasped the handle. Its cold stung her palm. She pushed the door open.
Beyond, sunlight radiated from the curtained window like an eclipse, while the rest of the room
was space without the stars, reducing corners to black holes and furniture to vague lumps.
The thumping came from the bathroom. Soft white light silhouetted a shadowy figure
standing behind the door, pounding their firsts repeatedly into the clouded glass. Two handprints
were smeared down the door’s lower half, as if someone had tried to escape but had given up. Or
couldn’t.
“Grandma?” Riley whispered. Grandma was tough; she’d probably been attacked by one
of those things, but locked it inside the bathroom. Maybe she was hiding somewhere. The closet?
Riley approached it—and tripped. Her bow flew from her hands. She landed on her knees
with a grunt, then scrambled to where her bow struck the bed and seized it. Bow aimed, she
turned and eyed what she’d fallen on.
It was a body. Female, face down, with dark skin and long hair. Riley’s heart stuttered.
She pushed the body over, then exhaled. It wasn’t Grandma, but some other woman—younger,
with a crooked nose. Mushroom spores sprouted in little spots around her puffy eyelids.
There was a sound like ice cracking on a frozen pond. Riley looked up to see a series of
fractures blossom in the bathroom door. The person behind it continued pounding. The door
shook in its frame. It wouldn’t last much longer.

Heterochromia / 9
Riley pushed herself off the ground and dashed to the closet. She slid the door open.
Nothing. Only clothes. Wait. An idea. She stretched, reached up, and ran her hand along the
dusty shelf until her fingers found metal. Grandma’s rifle.
Riley hated the rifle, but right now, hate didn’t matter—not when people had lost their
minds and the world had gone to shit. She pulled it down and checked the cartridge. Four-round
mag. Should be plenty. After popping the cartridge back in, she chambered a round, then clicked
the safety off. Gun ready. Just had to aim and shoot. She stepped back until her legs brushed the
bed. She lifted the rifle.
An arm burst through the glass. Riley tensed, pressed the stock tight against her shoulder,
and aimed. She pulled the trigger.
A shot boomed, deafening in the small room, knocking the rifle against her shoulder .
The round punched a fist-sized hole through the bathroom door, blowing the figure back. Blood
stained the marble wall at belly-level behind the broken glass.
Riley clenched her jaw and stepped forward, ears buzzing. Felt like a hive of bees had set
up shop inside. Her shoulder hurt like hell, too, but she didn’t dare lower the rifle to massage it.
Not until she knew the person beyond was done moving.
The bottom frame of the glass was still intact. An agonized gurgling noise wafted out
from inside. She peeked over it. Over the frame, the person convulsed. Riley slumped. The rifle
slipped from her fingers, thunking to the carpet.
It was Grandma. Her glasses hung askew from her face, pupils dilated as they darted
around the ceiling as if searching for something, and her chest heaved up-and-down. She
clutched her midsection, her fingers splayed around a tiny, button-sized hole in the stomach of

Heterochromia / 10
her flannel shirt. Darkness blossomed in the fabric, then the floor beneath her; a red sea rushing
over white tile. There was a heavy, wet wheezing sound, one final sigh, and the convulsions
loosened.
She went still.
“I’m sorry.” Riley dropped to her knees. The tears came again, hot and cutting. “I’m
sorry. I didn’t want to shoot you.” Glass twinkled around Grandma’s body, gouging a memory
forward; the twinkle became the glint of a rabbit’s eye beneath her.
Here, Riley, Grandma said, handing her the rifle. Fall had exhaled pumpkin-scented
breath over the land around them, tipping the trees shades of red and gold. The late-afternoon sky
was a burnished rust above. Beneath her feet, a rabbit squirmed in the trap, its coat dusted the
same grey as the twigs it was trapped on. It had big, black eyes, glossy with terror. Riley hefted
the rifle. Aim for the head, Grandma said. You don’t want to ruin the meat. Riley knew they had
to kill it. It was a pest, Grandma had told her that morning; the bramble was overflowing with
them. Riley’s finger brushed the trigger. All she had to do was squeeze it. Three pounds of
pressure and the rabbit would die. The problem with that, however, was the rabbit would die.
The moment stretched, Grandma silent beside her, waiting. Her hands shook. The trigger felt
cold. Three pounds. So little, but in reality a boulder’s weight. Riley lowered the rifle. She
couldn’t do it. Grandma took it from her. It’s okay, Riley, she said, killing isn’t for everybody.
She hefted the rifle, aimed, and squeezed—
Fifty growled, pulling Riley back to the present. She looked up, sniffing. Grandma was
climbing to her feet, and she didn’t look dead anymore. A scream peeled from her open mouth as
she stepped forward through the glass, her eyes narrowed.

Heterochromia / 11
Riley ran. She sprinted from the room, across the hall, down the stairs, boots thundering
on wood. She couldn’t shoot her. Not again. Running was better. She flew through the front door
into the yard. The wind swept against her face, a soft caress. Grandpa lay next to Steve. She
ignored them. Where should she go—where was there ​to ​go?
Grandma’s scream drifted from inside the house. Another scream matched it—this time
from the road to her right. A man was coming at her from the side of Grandpa’s truck.
She aimed the rifle at him. “Stop!”
He didn’t listen.
“I’ll shoot you if you don’t stop.” She whipped the rifle to a second man stumbling
around the other side. A third was on the road behind him. Fifty growled as Grandma appeared
in the doorway. That made four total. She only had three shots.
Riley lowered the rifle and sprinted into the forest. Fifty bounded beside her. Twigs
snapped; the wind whipped against her face. Her backpack dug into her shoulder blades. An
Atlas stone. She yanked her arms from its straps, flung it into the trees, and kept running. The
people were just behind, their screams and thudding footfalls trailing her like the breeze. She
sucked air into her starving lungs. There didn’t seem to be enough.
The trees tilted as she stumbled down a snowy slope. They needed a plan.
Cliff Pretty! It wasn’t far; she could see a glimpse of it through the trees. Fifty could
climb it too. They could knock the people back if they tried to follow. Riley cut right, planted her
hand on a log, and swung over. Fifty hopped across next. She glanced behind her. The people
had just reached the slope. A line of them ran down the hill, at least five or six in number.
Grandma’s red flannel flashed in the beeline of bodies.

Heterochromia / 12
Riley ran faster. Her breath left her mouth in ragged gasps. Fifty’s panting was heavy and
loud beside her. The cliff was close; the base appeared ahead. A cramp tore through her side.
Pain. Fire. It didn’t matter. They were almost there. The cliff loomed just ahead. Forty feet away.
Thirty. Twenty. Ten—
Snap. Fifty howled behind her. Riley turned. He lay in the snow, his front foot caught in
something.
The coyote trap.
Riley sprinted to him, skidding to her knees. Fifty whined. Blood stained his foot red.
He’d been moving too fast when the metal clamped shut, so it jerked him to a brutal stop. With
shaking hands, she reached down and tried to press the release levers, but her fingers were too
cold, too weak. Gritting her teeth, she tried again, forcefully, until the trap shook in her hands
like a ragdoll.
It must’ve spooked Fifty because he bit her. She cried out, yanking her hand free from his
teeth in a tear of skin. Blood welled in warm rivets across the bite marks. She pressed her hand
between her legs, tears welling up like the blood. Through her blurry vision, shapes flickered in
the trees. Human coyotes. Hunting.
Riley extended her hand but Fifty growled. “Please, boy. Please. I have to get it off you. I
have to.” Her voice broke. She reached forward again, her hand throbbing. Fifty snapped at her,
forcing her back.
The people were close enough she could hear their enraged howls, the stomping of their
feet, the crunch of snow as they twisted through leaves and branches. The sounds swelled until

Heterochromia / 13
they were a roar in Riley’s ears, a fury-filled chant. A promise of death. Impending. Inevitable.
There was no time to get Fifty’s paw free. The realization hit her like the car did six years ago.
A sob escaped her mouth. She hefted the rifle. Time slowed. Screams dulled to whispers.
Around her, the swaying leaves seemed to shift color, tinting grey to red, white to yellow. A pair
of brown-and-blue eyes, glossy with pain, met hers. Her finger brushed the trigger. Three pounds
of pressure. So little. So much.
The gun kicked in her hands.
The world split. Fragments. People roaring behind her; a cold couch warmed by fur, a
wet tongue licking her face; hand-over-hand, gasping, up stacks of pancakes, hard and snowy;
rock scuffing elbows and knees, drawing blood; tears; Grandpa sleeping in the driveway; a
rabbit; an aching hand that hurt more than the empty house and the hole in her chest.
Riley crested the final rock. She hoisted herself up and turned until she sat on the cliff’s
edge. Bodies were congregated around a white-and-brown speck below. Ripping, tearing.
She watched them do it. She watched until there was nothing left. She watched because it
was the only thing she’d ever done, and because it was all she could do. She watched until the
wind chilled the last of her tears to an afterthought.
There wouldn’t be any more.


