For the next four hours, this car is mine. I’ve got a few
stations locked on the stereo, the mirrors are in their exact hang,
without disturbing the spiders who have nested in the back space of
the dark. There is enough room for all of us in this sled. Who is us?
That question is best answered by the things not known. These humans
sitting kitty corner with their weight, they sit in seats I will
never seek. They can tell me whatever story they want and
I have to just believe. Same for them.
Currently, it’s a good looking youngster with a beard. I just
found out he was gay. Not a word was said about his tastes, but we
pull up to a bar for bears. These are the gay men who don't give two
shits about designer coffee tables and raiding women's closets for
fashion sprints. Men who want to drink beer with other beards and
whoever loses on the pool table, will be bottom when they meet in the
bathroom. I turn to see why there is no cash in my hand. Eyes closed
and his head bobs listening to the turn up my stereo supplies.
Hip-hop Gay: “I wish they played this shit in the club, damnnn!!”
As he gets out, a wobble starts towards and a hearty sigh falls
out of me. I knew he wouldn’t have the same appreciation for the
song, so I turned it down, mainly to be able to hear whether he had
the proper words to even begin this transaction. Far too hard to
waste this music and hear it tease me from low tomes, it’s just
better business for me to put it on pause. I am weak to listen to
multi-platinum words over yours. I need my wits for this one,
curveballs command. I look back again hoping he's changed his mind.
There he stands, sweaty & done. Spent man saying a destination some
miles away in a different county. Harsh language that would be fined
by the FCC, but they aren't here and I am. I have no way to squeeze
out of this one. This doesn’t feel like the pocket I just crawled
into.
He is barking out far more than needs to be, considering we have
only moved about 75 feet if that. This will be my way out, yell at
his bullshit, tell him this ends with him sweating elsewhere, he
needs to get some blood back in his legs and that sidewalk is going
to help him do that.

He's dressed as plain as possible, no red flags pop up. A light
sweater, jeans and a Yankees cap. The ball cap is the most offensive
thing about him, but a gay man showing an allegiance to any sport is
of note.
It can all be summed up with the extra miles added to the
odometer. Somebody and always that somebody that begins as a
stranger. The heights of fatigue, the weakest and most fond, aroma
blunt. When you realize the length, the stretch you'll have to make,
in order to remain safe. He is grateful. This I don't expect which,
puts me at ease. A steady teeter on the fence before you approach a
freeway.
Yank: “Turn right here! We're going to the beach. So get on the
freeway.”
Now he's copped his first strike. Already I've done him a solid
by entertaining such a far ride, but I get it, I have remained silent
and he doesn't know I'm going through a ranking system in my head
that is live as lemons. The bears' nook is a flat part of the city
that is as close to a major freeway without being underneath it. So
even a cabbie on his first day knows that turning right is the only
logical choice.
Immediately I strum the checklist. With business so healthy,
leaving the city is pretty low on the list and just not what I want
to do at that hour. But you also don't want to penalize the guy for
living so far out and keeping one less body here. There is zero
traffic and it's all by freeway so I'm game for it.
Yank: Don't give me a hard time OK?
We're definitely not friends, but now he's just throwing
wrenches. I'm glad I've stayed silent but it must end and fast.
I prefer the kind of person so insulted that they feel they must make
it rain. Cash is a sedative to boiling blood on a stove with no
whistle. A person intent on cooking their skillet. A main component
of the checklist is to incite action. I need to know what kind of
person you are and what you're capable of doing.

Even if I'm having a casual night I don't have the luxury of
just keeping things relaxed. The good thing about crazy people and
their ill motives is that if they are incited, they don't know how to
calculate, only to react. Or in many a case, they enter my domain
already in a state of excite and I'm forced to meet their full
cocaine junket from a dead stop.
Yank is easy because he’s already well into his state. Some of
my favorite customers are a routine account held by our company.
Calls on the regular from a sex club where men empty their stress
through random circumference in walls. They pour themselves out spent
and sprite, ready for an even longer night where they feel they can
clog new holes with alcohol. I can tell he's filled up a tall frame
with half of what the bar offers and is now venting into my space. It
will always smell better in the bottle.
Yank: Ya hear me? Don’t give me a hard time.
He's returned to his comfortable patch of grass. Those of the
disconnect, they excel at marking their thumbprint in that space and
making it their own. Yank is a well worn catcher's mitt that made me
believe he would advocate the odd in any space that he was in at the
time, so I let him have it. All cabbies have the ability to run their
mobile unit as they see fit. Usually I run the stereo and do my best
to make all of us enjoy the selections, naked without knowing their
taste. With immediacy, letting them enjoy more of the fresh air they
had just left, if they indeed forgot how to be an adult in my
presence. The shortest introduction of people who you attempt to get
off on a good foot and find that the only foot in need, is the one
going in their ass.
Folks like Yank, you defer. You drop your rules and let them
have the space. I need my ears to do their best and no melodies or
bass will hide the symphony in my stomach, the maestro striking the
solar plexus in all situations that begin to sour. The DNA strands of
his words you begin to piece together whether they are rooted in
sanity or have soiled in whatever that person has ingested on that
night. And on this night just about every able bodied homosexual man
is having the same meal, or dessert if you will. A salad of
libations, a bowl of rum towed on hitch through a tunnel of Gran
Marnier.

Java: Ya got cash?
He's so fatigued of my question which, in any other business
would be illegal and bluntly discriminating. Yet, credit cards hit
rim all the time. Checks you forgot to deposit, banks still pending.
We've been on the freeway a few. I'm fully locked in as he's passed
enough of the basics, barely. I'm hoping the combo of subtle music
and the drone of tires will tryptophan him. Maybe he's attempting to
keep his identity under wraps with the ball cap? He's old enough to
not care about bald spots so I doubt it’s that.
Even though he's scoring a C- on the checklist, my ruptured
stomach, with all of its sinkholes and archaic copper conduits, still
sounds massive alarms. I'm gonna push this little sled hard with
every lane at my disposal. I decide to go for the only marker he's
putting out, his only headline. He refuses to fall asleep, just
repetitive gratitude and mumble. I'm expecting it to go northwest
but, it goes where it needs to go. Baseball it is.
Java: Why you chose the Yankees?
Yank: I was really into the miracle Mets of 68. Ever heard of 'em? I
hate the Yankees. I just wear it because it reminds me of my mother.
She took us to the Bronx but I was always a Mets fan. Nobody saw it
coming that year.
Java: Okay.... so the other New York.
Yank: This is depressing, let's change the subject. You need to
change the subject, anything but that kind of stuff.
He mutters more under his breath and I'm just baffled.
Yank: I was talking about baseball, you had to take it there asshole!
I'm 58 years old, I live by the beach and I'm gay.
Because I'm sober and have both our lives in our hands, I'm at
fault. I knew he's gay or gay in hiding, but now he's confirmed it
via an odd meter of awkward. Info that could have been him napping
instead.

Yank: My boyfriend of many years, he used to live with me and my
mother, died of lung cancer a few months back.
It only felt like hours away from where I had picked him up in
the city. It felt that way, because it looked that way. At the stop
sign I turned my head to the right to look at the ocean. It’s there
and there isn’t an ocean that I don’t look at. But I need to remain
focused on what sits behind me. I’m comfortable in this small beach
town because I used to camp out on these very shores digging out
canals for sand crabs. An auntie of mine once owned a house in that
town and it provided soil for growing up.
As
perfect
had the
who has
throngs

long as he didn't live too far from that beach it provided a
marker to know my escape. I wouldn’t need GPS as long as I
Pacific ocean near for nature’s guidance. Plus in all reality
time in a stressful situation, cabbies live amongst the
of the millisecond.

A place for cheap gas and not much else. It’s not often that a
beach town can go without much of a glance. Fog makes you look for
the other possibilities, the potential that may be sitting atop the
Pacific. It forces you to look directly at what’s in front of you
since you are robbed of a horizon and seagulls.
A town full of dunes, it felt slightly jungle, because it was
full of creeks and far more trees than homes. But Yank, he has no
clue to my past and my time spent in this town. I am of no meaning to
him, a green screen human for him to project the feelings of his mom
on to me. Forcing me to listen since he is paying and the grimy bar
sex he just had was drowned in full volume playlist.
Your death by assault is pushed a few miles out into the ocean,
kept at bay, the buoy of your next breath bobbing on a maverick. The
decrease in speed and the slope into the stop sign, have left some
tranquility in the end of motion. The hamster in the wheel you can
hear in his head, turning soiled gears deciding if he will commit
fully to this rage in him. This sense of loss of being on a planet
near the seal kingdom yet, not sharing it with his dear mother. What
is soiled so much in his soul that bears almost identical to the
Yankees cap on his head? It reminds him of innocent days of NY. It
reminds me of the Summer of Sam and the chill in the air where cells
ended in cars just like this one.

If you ever saw an Orca at Seaworld, jump on command and splash
the first ten rows, watch the pool. As it recoils the waves continue
to spill over and gather itself running along the edges and spitting
over the retainer. At that point, nobody cared but I would watch to
see how long it kept up and over, the rings of a sustained wave.
While the Orca dove deep and kept them all on the edge as they saw a
black shadow beast at full race car in the reflection.
My answer was also speed, maybe the images passing fast kept him
mesmerized. Pushing the needle on worn cabs to keep myself awake,
espresso shots of adrenaline to get him to his destination. Just as
the passenger gets too quiet, you value consistency. Since he'd
established drunken rants I would have preferred he remain in that
pocket.
I'd love to say the conversation went some magical place. A dive
down a hairpin turn and two less teeth. It didn't however, little did
I know it had crested. Maybe Yank heard his oddball bouncing back at
him as he leaned into the glass. Staring at the few cars still out
and even the fewer passing us up. Maybe he caught a glimpse of
himself somewhere distant in all those layers, scratching his head
and the thoughts or spirit of his mother telling him that no other
words were necessary.
As we pull off on his exit, he begins to get a second wind and
his mumbles are momentous springs of clarity. I’m left to wonder if
he has a well that was going to empty regardless of which cab pulled
over. The alcohol feeding him chips on his shoulder, to lay that East
Coast gruff on to anybody going out of their way to do him a generous
solid. Now that he can smell the salt water he seems to have come
down with a case of zen. As he guides me through the last few turns
we pull up to the darkest home on the block. Most folks who know
they're gonna bathe in 80 proof will leave themselves one solid light
that can be of help as they sway on the porch. I worry for who may be
chained up in that hoarders castle. He tips me decent and serves me
no more odd vowels. He strolls towards his dark.

The business ended as good as it could. Maybe his first glance
at a random telephone pole allowed him to exhale again. Yesterday he
saw a man staple a notice for a garage sale to that pole. A good
chunk of that sign pays tribute to its one staple and it waves a
breezy flap to Yank, welcome home.


