Day dawned hot and smoky from a rash of flash fires burning uncontrollably to the east.
Bart looked towards his older brother Gus and wondered for the tenth time how three brothers
had arrived at this bankrupt, near-abandoned Florida farmhouse. Here their father had hidden
out for years. What had he been doing? Bart had grilled his brothers for any strangeness in their
father’s behavior at the Alakaway farm since their mother’s death but without success.
Without saying so, Bart feared his father was involved in some illegal importing scheme
stemming from the old man’s fascination with Florida pirates of the twentieth century and the
character of his fishing buddies living in coastal Steinhatchee sixty miles further west. Bart’s
family cross-interrogation was his typical behavior as the lawyer and financial advisor, which the
other brothers tolerated with incessant internal jokes. Bart was largely concerned with covering
his own inexplicable experiences whenever he visited Papá, as they called their father. Bart used
his silent accusations to hide his own growing conviction that his own five senses were not
totally trustworthy. Each passing day Bart sensed a hidden realm lurking just behind his
experience of daily events, beginning with his growing awareness of sensing his brothers’
thoughts as bright shadows, whether they were near or far off.
Gus appeared as another being, a brown bear prowling after prey in some dark, trackless
woods. Stefán, deaf from birth, was far more mysterious. He took the form of a hawk of some
sort, sailing far above them, observing, alert, ready to swoop down into action. But of his own
father Bart could sense nothing.
Papá had moved abruptly to Mexico without sharing with his boys any details as to his
own motivation or hopes -- possibly to start a new life after his faithful wife’s recent passing.
Rumors abounded that many other U.S. citizens had fled to Mexico before him, taking the

remnants of their salvaged wealth to rebuild an ancient island city, the supposed origin of the
Aztec empire -- Mexcalititlán.
The after-effects of the Collapse of 2014 had rippled out from the financial centers of
Atlanta and Jacksonville to overwhelm this mid-Florida prairie, phased out of any practical use,
reverting into mindless marshes. The tiny town of Alackaway remained dazed in the economic
evasions and ennui that had first swept across Florida and then spread globally. Now the brothers
-- Bartóldo, Augustín, and Stefán -- found themselves stranded at their father’s derelict ranch,
economically unable to escape to anywhere better.
With their father’s disappearance, the three brothers remained in deadlock over the
ownership, disposition, and even the use of the cabin, abandoned fields, dilapidated barn, tired
out-buildings, and surviving livestock – namely a horse, a donkey, and a scatter of wild ducks.
Stefán, the most rash of the three and inclined to act before reasoning, threatened to
follow their father into exile. Gus, the most educated, stubbornly demanded that they all stay in
Alackaway to work together and somehow build a shared business. Secretly Gus also longed for
the return of his now impossible ideal work, based on the unlimited world of quantum physics.
He yearned to continue his perpetually interrupted research that had once consumed all of his
attention: the physics of absolute elsewhere. No one researched this concept, or concepts in
general, anymore.
Bart, impatient with his brothers’ willingness to surrender into default survival in rural
Florida, pulled his cell phone out of his jean’s hip pocket and pressed the webcam icon that
brought up a real-time image from the worksite across the street from his abandoned law office.
The Atlanta landscape remained as desolate as when he saw it last, two months ago. Afternoon


downtown, but the streets were deserted with no pedestrians. He was constantly amazed to be
able to watch the painfully slow progress at rebuilding the collapsed office park where once he
had shared vibrant rental space with a leading commercial outlet in the city, Equifax.
Two construction cranes idled in a newly dug pit, filled with rainwater on the backside,
beginning restoration but stalling in midstream. Crews were actively working less than two hours
on any given day. He could hardly determine progress over the past two months of watching the
construction site. The upper story webcam on an adjacent building, somehow surviving, had not
been maintained but still managed to transmit the limited activity of a few cars nuzzling along
the far edge of the excavation. He had built up his law practice as a solo venture with clients he
found across the Southeast, now all scattered off-net, silent to electronic queries, unable or
unwilling to respond to his cell phone calls. Bart found himself stranded away from his wife and
children, stuck in north central Florida after a supposedly quick trip to see his Papá, just as
interstate boundary skirmishes had erupted between Georgia and Florida.
An east wind blew steadily, plunging the landscape into a dense, reddish haze. The haze
then magnified the heat and diffused any sunlight. Bart and Gus stood resting for the moment
wondering what to do next in the staggering heat. Both were drenched in sweat. Even now at
two o’clock in the afternoon, a savage band of horseflies had marshaled around them and had to
be fought off. Yet to kill a single giant fly would be to invite a re-assault by the impatient swarm
rushing in for revenge.
“I had the strangest dream last night around 4:00 AM,” Gus said to Bart, who had just
finished repairing a four-rail fence that was falling in slow motion under the weight of morning
glory and jasmine vines. Gus directed his comment toward his older brother, while keeping his

Page 3 of 12

Three Brothers Laughing
Word Count: 3300

back turned towards Stefán. The youngest brother was oblivious to any possible snub, being
both deaf and preoccupied with a horse, whose left back leg he was holding between his knees,
carefully filing a cracked hoof prior to its reshoeing.
“What were you doing awake at that time of night?” Bart asked.
“I couldn’t sleep. Instead I got up about 2:00 and drank a shot of Papá’s bourbon. When I
fell back to sleep, I dreamed we were back in 2012. I had just started practicing law in Atlanta.
You were visiting me. You and I went downtown to see the Georgia Aquarium. It hadn’t been
closed yet. All the water hadn’t burst through the glass walls. It wasn’t so dangerous to be
around that area after dark. Not like now. You were trying to buy cell phone batteries because
they are impossible to find in Florida. We rode downtown in your Subaru – private cars hadn’t
been confiscated by the government yet. Families still ate out at restaurants and some even went
to see a Brave’s game afterward.
“In my dream, you asked me about where Jolene was. She had just left me that week, and
I looked at you and just laughed,” Gus continued. “Then I woke up.” Gus at the age of 44 had
passed through a series of women as lab assistants, lovers, nominal wives, and various scuba
diving partners, ending with Jolene, a bar waitress.
“So, where is Jolene now? Has she walked out on you again?” Bart demanded.
“She’s restless about living in Alackaway. Thinks it’s too small a town with no industry
but she won’t move back to Gainesville even. She knows that the university goes on dismissing
long-term students, blaming the Collapse,” Gus said. “She wants me to find a better paying job
than a bartender. What’s a quantum physicist from Atlanta doing serving up warm beer in
Gainesville, when we’re lucky enough to have any beer at all? There’s is no other work for me.”
Page 4 of 12

Three Brothers Laughing
Word Count: 3300

“You could live down here to Alackaway and help us build up a water buffalo herd from
the wild stock running free in the prairie,” Stefán suddenly interjected, looking up from his horse
shoeing and realizing some serious conversation had passed without him. Unnoticed, he had
been reading Gus’s lips. “Live in Papá’s old trailer, do some real work with me.”
Gus spit on the ground and wiped his mouth with the back of his hand. “Must have
swallowed a fly,” he offered as his only answer.
“I don’t know how much longer you’ll be farming down here, Stefán,” Gus said in sign
language. “The tax liens have added up and the court is hearing our plea next week. Bart is
supposed to sweet talk our way out of a county repossession, but it doesn’t look good for any of
us. I don’t see any inheritance around here to share after all.” The three brothers fell silent, lost in
their individual anxieties. The horse stirred nervously, waiting for Stefán to pay attention and
finish.
The water buffalo project had been a sore point of discussion for many months. Their
father, forever enthused by outlandish cash flow ideas he picked up from other nearby failing
farmers, had heard of a scheme to raise water buffalo in the brackish marshes south of
Alackaway. He had met a university professor who was studying a new effort to promote dairy
farming with the huge, horned beasts. Water buffalo would help U.S. farmers gain a foothold in
the cheese market, where all food stuffs were limited, and Federal rationing held prices to razor
thin margins. Meanwhile, that market had vanished along with many other notions of gourmet
food, when general starvation becomes common throughout the Southeast. But already their
father had sold everything to make his stand in these rural backwoods, land abandoned in the
1940’s as true cattle ranching moved west to Tampa.

Page 5 of 12

Three Brothers Laughing
Word Count: 3300

Bart looked toward the east where low, glowering banks of smoky clouds masked the flat
horizon. Before now the thick air had left them breathless, but a sudden hot wind rippled across
the prairie grasses from a great distance. Cows in a neighboring, unfenced pasture interrupted
their endless grazing and looked around in alarm.
“We need to take Pa’s jeep over to Riley’s farm to see what’s happening,” Bart said. He
slapped Stefán’s shoulder to get his attention away from the horse. “Let’s go check things out,
Buddy” he signed, gesturing for his brother to put down his farrier tools. Not waiting, Bart took
off running toward the parked jeep behind the barn, with Stefán and Gus close after him. The
three jumped onto the jeep and pulled out of the driveway onto the shell rock road leading east.
Ahead, Bart saw an abrupt flight of crows rushing up from a pasture, crying warnings to one
another. His heart raced.
Despite the intense glare of the afternoon sun, an angry red glow stretched across the
eastern horizon, brightening and widening, as if announcing a second sunrise. The barren
landscape, punctuated here and there with palmettos and cabbage palms was becoming animated
with a low, rumbling sound. The ground began to tremble. Just ahead of the jeep a vast swath of
burning marsh grass crackled, racing before a leading wind, sweeping a wide fringe of fire
toward them. Bart swerved off the road and charged behind the jeep to pull out a spare can of
gasoline. Bart yanked up the false floor in the back cabin, pointing at the fire fighter’s equipment
stored there – an extinguisher, smoke masks, and a set of fire shields.
“Gus, take the gas and pour it in along that fence line so it cuts off the brushfire,” he
yelled. Gus leaned forward with a bear-like swipe of his left arm, seized the gas can and
lumbered off never looking back. “Stefán, ride with me,” Bart signaled, lunging into the driver’s

Page 6 of 12

Three Brothers Laughing
Word Count: 3300

seat. Gus started off sloshing gas as he stalked north, broad shoulders heaving fuel left and right.
Black smoke enveloped him. “What do I do when I run out of gas?” he yelled back over his
shoulder to his older brother.
“Light it and run.”
Bart and Stefán drove off towards the approaching front, as clouds of black smoke and
ash swirled up to smother them. The distant wall of flame rushed forward, lighting and heating
the atmosphere, clawing upwards eight to ten feet above the marsh grass that blackened, twisted
as if in pain, and fell away into ash behind it. The entire eastern horizon burned.
The two brothers drove in tense silence straight ahead, following the pitted white
limestone road up to a closed cattle gate. Stefán stepped out to open the metal frame and then
turned, saw something in the near distance within the swirls of smoke, and started running away
from the jeep.
As the fumes were torn apart by a cross wind, Bart saw that Stefán was closing in on a
terrified horse caught huddled against the fenced corner of a pasture, moments from being
encircled in flames. The horse had tangled its front legs in the four board fence, which despite
the horse’s frantic kicks had not shattered away from the corner post, leaving it thrashing but
unable to back off. Stefán had already grabbed a sledge hammer from the back of the jeep and
was running towards the trapped creature.
“For God’s sake, come back, Stefán, there’s a new flair-up straight ahead!” Bart shouted,
forgetting his younger brother’s deafness. Immediately behind the trapped horse, fire leaped
across the pasture, landing in a grove of cabbage palms that in turn burst into a bouquet of
torches showering sparks in all directions. Bart felt deep fear in which he suddenly sensed the
Page 7 of 12

Three Brothers Laughing
Word Count: 3300

hawk shadow of his deaf brother, calmly circling overhead, observing them both. In a silent
shout he called up to where Stefan soared above the flames, commanding Stefán’s attention to
more earth-bound dangers. Stefán, perhaps in response, slammed the sledge hammer against the
corner fence post, which shattered. The horse, finally breaking free, raced away to safety.
Bart felt his breath raking into his lungs as hot smoke, tears forming in his eyes. The air
was thin, lacking oxygen, withering to the lungs more than the bitter smoke that surrounded them
with a wasp-like cloud of embedded, stinging embers. He plunged ahead toward Stefán with a
fire extinguisher in hand, hoping to clear a swath of safety around himself and his brother. Fire to
the left, fire to the right, straight ahead an eight-foot wall of combustion into which the world
was rapidly dissolving.
“Stefán, Stefán!” Bart shouted.
A tall, metal radio tower standing alone to the south of Riley’s farm had already been
surrounded and to the brothers’ horror, suddenly burst into flames. The framework arced with
ominous certitude toward the prairie flats, the sound of its crashing swallowed up in the growing
roar of the convection wind sucked into the flame front.
“Gus, come back to the jeep,” Bart shouted, hoping that Gus at least could hear him.
“Stefán has left his fire shield in the trunk.” Gus stepped out of the smoke, grinning, and satisfied
with playing with fire to please himself and his brothers. “I thought Stefán stopped to strap it on,
but instead he left it here,” Bart explained as Gus lumbered up to him, panting.
“We’ve got to get Sefán’s shield up to him, he’s about to be trapped in the fire,” Bart
said. They checked their own shields strapped around their waists, grabbed the third belt and
raced forward into the advancing wall of flame. Stefán was beating back the fire as it flared up
before him from the dry grass, a shimmering wall of disintegrating vegetation.

Page 8 of 12

Three Brothers Laughing
Word Count: 3300

Leaping flames darkened the sky. A hell-storm covered hundreds acres raging from the
east. If they became encircled, trapped by the fire, they had the thin shields to use, all except
Stefán. These devices were folded into a packet worn around the waist. Unfolded, the shield
resembled a big, baked potato skin with a triangular tent top. Any trapped firefighter could lie
inside it and hold the straps down with his feet and hands, after digging a hole where his face
would go, filled with water. But the brothers had nothing left in their water bottles.
Bart reached Stefán first, flung the spare shield at him and shouted “Get down, we’re
surrounded.” Stefán, oblivious to their approach in his private circle of silence, continued to
confront the flames, until his older brother tackled him from the rear and the both men lurched
forward, nearly falling in the direct fire path. Bart began digging a shallow pit to shelter his face
and gestured to Stefán to do the same. The older brother flung an aluminum shield over Stefán
and then stretched the second over himself, diving back to earth face down. Nothing remained
for him to see except the crushed grass underneath, the roar of the approaching freight train of
flame, and perhaps make time to pray. Somehow he sensed his brother’s inner calm, soaring far
overhead, circling, considering flying off, perhaps never to land again…
The fire, widespread around them, was consuming the last oxygen in the air. They
couldn’t breathe. They pulled up bandannas over their faces. This filtered the smoke, but yielded
them no more oxygen. Bart kept lifting his tent slightly, looking around. He could only guess
where Gus had flung himself, or fallen unconscious. The heat twenty feet from them exceeded
900 degrees. But the heat was not the problem; it was the lack of oxygen. It was impossible to
breathe. Glancing back west where the only clear horizon remained, Gus saw their father’s
farmhouse, trailer, and barn burst into flame.

Page 9 of 12

Three Brothers Laughing
Word Count: 3300

With a rushing sigh, the flames passed overhead. Suddenly they could breathe again. Bart
stood up first, shakily, brushing his face off with his left hand. Stefán got up more slowly,
looking at Bart with a puzzled expression. In sign language, Stefán signaled “It’s OK. As long as
we’re all alive.”
As the smoke cleared leaving a landscape etched in black inks, Bart and Stefán walked
back to the jeep where Gus was waiting for them. The fire lane Gus had thrown up had saved the
jeep and the equipment. The three brothers surveyed the devastation to discover that their
father’s horse was standing unhaltered in the distance, stunned in the middle of the fishing pond
behind where the farm house had stood ten minutes before.
Without comment, Bart limped over to the water and waded out to capture and calm the
terrified horse. The animal, trembling but safe, stood chest deep next to a sunken rowboat his
father had once used for fishing the pond.
Bart reached down, groping through thick mud into the hull of the sunken boat. Moving
up under the covered bow, his hand closed around a cylindrical form. He pulled it up out of the
water and carefully scraped off a layer of algae and muck. Bart saw that he was holding a classic
Maya ceramic cup, vividly painted with images of seated warriors, one divining with a mirror of
polished obsidian, one throwing dice with a Lord of the Underworld -- death. The beauty of his
find took his breath away. The street value of rare, ancient Aztec pottery back in Mexico dawned
on Bart slowly.
He understood what his father had done, trading stolen ceramics from Mexico and
smuggling them into Florida. If there were other pottery pieces of this quality buried in the mud
in this abandoned farm’s lake, the brothers could be wealthy. Former American managers in

Page 10 of 12

Three Brothers Laughing
Word Count: 3300

Mexcaltitán, collecting these types of authentic artifacts, would pay handsomely and could well
afford the ceramics at staggering prices.
Bart hugged his brothers, despite their reeking of smoke and soot. The three men laughed
and danced wildly in the shallow water, ecstatic with the escape route opening before them, even
as the dense smoke cleared.

Word Count: 3300

Page 11 of 12


