The rain came down in torrents. Throughout the fall,
winter, and spring it never seemed to stop. Then it got hot,
then it got dry, and the winds blew and blew. Then the dust
came, swirling the rich, dry topsoil into the air. It settled
everywhere. It was useless to sweep the floors of the house, as
the dust would pile up on the floor, furniture, in the closets,
on the clothing, and in every imaginable place you could think
of, sometimes in less than an hour after the house was totally
cleaned. Taking a shower was called a mud bath.
Joe’s grandfather had a huge ranch with two thousand head
of cattle. Little Joe grew up in Bonham, Texas, and had ridden
horses practically since the day he was born. He had deep brown
eyes and long, dark hair that was cut when they sheared sheep
every six months. His dad had been stomped into the ground in a
cattle stampede, and his mother had disappeared into some dusty
town down south, where the action was.
Joe was raised by his grandparents. The family made a lot
of salami, mostly from inferior cattle, and stored it in the
basement. The salami could be stored for months after curing and
it was Joe’s favorite snack. Usually, he would take a hunk of
the salami and some hard bread with him when he went out on the
range to move cattle and find strays. Many times he would
capture other ranchers’ cattle and brand them with his ranch's
brand. Joe especially liked to do this, sneaking around and
stealing in the middle of the night, cutting the neighbors’
fences, then patching them up after the stolen cattle were
removed. It was hard, mischievous work with great rewards.
After the wind blew away the soil, there was nothing left
to grow crops or raise cattle. When there was no food left, Joe
and his grandparents lived on stored salami. Grandfather’s
remaining cattle starved to death or died of thirst.
At the age of nineteen, Joe headed to California. He knew
nothing except raising cattle and got a job as a bartender in
Hayward, California. He pocketed drink money when the boss
wasn’t looking. He wore his big white cowboy hat and large dark
glasses to keep the Texas dust out — just in case another dust
storm came along.
Joe was drafted into the US Army in 1942 and since he was
good with horses, was assigned to the cavalry. Joe and his
company paraded into big cities on holidays, for military
funerals, special occasions, and recruiting parades, wearing
military dress uniforms.
Inspection was once a week or whenever the sergeant felt
like it. So, the soldiers continuously washed and groomed their
horses in case Sarge sprung an inspection on them at a moment’s
notice. All parts had to be cleaned. When Joe pulled back his
stallion’s foreskin, the horse grinned and extended his large
penis.
On occasion, when the sergeant made a detailed, close-up
inspection, he would yell, “Get that son-of-a-bitch clean, and I
mean now! Report to me in an hour. I want to see that dick
shining like a diamond.”
Joe would have to reapply lanolin oil, and his horse would
grin and shake as Joe rubbed. The second time around, he always
passed inspection. Joe knew that the sergeant was sometimes
fucking with him.
At the company canteen bar, Joe got a job as a bartender at
night. When the sergeant appeared, as usual, Joe poured him a
big glass of whiskey at no charge. After that, the sergeant left
him alone and his horse wasn’t so lucky.
Joe acquired the name “Salami Joe” in the service. Whether
it was because he ate a lot of salami or because he cleaned the
horse’s dick, it stuck. Maybe it was both.
A week before Joe got out of the service, he got a letter
from a realtor that read:

Dear Sir:
The Riggert Ranch is being sold in sixty days for
overdue state taxes. If you are the owner or a close

4

relative, please call me. I have an interested party
who would like to buy the property. If you are not the
right party, please disregard this message.

Yours truly,
Frank Bowne Realtor Telephone-An 607-5321

Two months later, Joe received $92,061.21 in the escrow
closing after taxes. He thought he’d discovered a gold mine.
Joe looked around and found a bar called the Diamond
Horseshoe and bought it. It was located in the Diamond district
a small community in Oakland. Above the bar on the second story
were ten, one-bedroom apartments. Joe installed a mini deli in
the corner of the bar, and of course served his favorite salami
hanging for all to see. Joe seemed to always carry a wad of
salami in his pocket or on the seat of his new red-and-gold
Cadillac, and had a large brahma steer horn mounted on the front
of the hood.
One of his pals from the service stopped by the bar.
“Salami Joe! How ya doin’?” That sealed the name in his new
neighborhood. The name caught on.
Word came down a little later that the Riggert Ranch had
struck oil. Joe picked up the newspaper at the drugstore and
there it was, on the front page. RIGGERT RANCH STRIKES OIL,

5
ESTIMATED TO BE THE BIGGEST GUSHER IN MODERN HISTORY! There was a

picture of the realtor, Frank Bowne, who had written him about
the foreclosure a few months before. The picture showed a few
other men, with Frank grinning while holding bottles of
champagne, throwing money in the air with the oil gushing out of
the ground from the tower behind them.
Joe knew he had been swindled and took off to Texas to
level the playing field, only to end up beaten and battered and
shot at a few times. He left with bullet holes in his shiny redand-gold Cadillac.
Above the bar lived a sailor, Don Driver, who was soon
being discharged from the Navy. Day and night he partied with
women and friends, and of course, Jose’s bar downstairs was his
favorite haunt. Don and Salami Joe became great buddies. Joe’s
business was thriving, especially with Don and his friends
spending wads of money across the bar counter.
Don had access to a lot of money. His parents were rich.
Don and his brother were building triplexes using their dad’s
money and general contractor’s license. After a few years, the
brothers got their separate contractor’s license and established
their own business.
Don spent a lot of time at the Diamond Horseshoe. Joe was
always doing deals. Don had a new truck and loved horses, and he

6

kept a horse in stables in the Oakland hills, where he rode
occasionally.
One day at the bar, Joe told Don he had a beautiful silver
saddle and a horse named Prancer. Joe took Don to his home,
which was on two acres in the Oakland hills, where he kept two
horses. “I only need one horse. You can have the palomino,” Joe
said.
Don went over and stroked the beautiful golden-colored
horse and its pure white mane.
“Take it for a ride. I’ll get the saddle,” Joe offered, and
the two men saddled the horse.
Don put his foot on the stirrup and hoisted his muscular
five-foot-nine body up onto the horse and rode, his thin brown
hair blowing in the breeze. The horse pranced and held its head
high as the saddle sang out while it rubbed for a better
position, adjusting on the horse’s back and to Don’s rear end.
“Whatta you think?”
“It’s a fine horse,” said Don, impressed.
“I have a beautiful silver saddle in my house that I want
you to see.”
There in the living room sat a shiny silver saddle that Joe
had purchased at an auction a few weeks before for a bargain
price, along with Jackie Boy the horse. Don rolled his hand over

7

the slick silver and the gold on the horn and front side of the
saddle.
“I’ll make you a deal — the horse and saddle for your
truck,” Joe said.
“Well, how about you hand me back $200 and we got a deal.”
“A deal, and you buy the drinks,” said Salami Joe.
The truck had cost Don $3,200. Joe had bought the saddle
and horse for $1,800, and Don spent the $200 at Joe’s bar,
celebrating.
Joe was making a good living at his bar but wanted to go
into business big time to make up for the millions of oil
profits he thought he was entitled to. Don had a general
contractor’s license, and Joe started to pitch Don on building
something big. Don’s brother was building home subdivisions. Don
was doing some remodeling and once in a while built a home for
others on contract. Don’s brother saved his money and put it in
his business, making millions, and his business grew. Don left
his profits on Salami Joe’s bar.
Joe’s father-in-law owned a small ranch in Riverbank,
California, out in the country. He knew of some property in town
across the street from the river. He knew that it was selling
cheap but couldn’t recall the exact price. Joe and Don went to
Riverbank, a small town of only a couple hundred people. Joe
roamed with Don and his father-in-law on his forty-acre cow

8

ranch. As Joe kicked at the dry turds on the ground, it brought
back memories of his early days in Texas. He was thinking big.
Excited, they all jumped into Joe’s Cadillac and headed for the
property to meet the realtor.
Don walked around the property, surveying how many houses
he could put on it while the realtor and Joe’s father-in-law
tagged along. Joe leaned on his beloved Cadillac, smoking a
cigar and dreaming of all the money he would make. He was
starting to feel better about the oil loss, thinking that since
this new venture was his big idea, he should get 75 percent of
the profits.
“What ya think?” said Joe, blowing out a big puff of smoke
as the others approached him.
“Not bad,” said Don, quietly excited since it was his first
subdivision. “I see no problems.”
Pretty nice, thought Joe, thinking only about money without
any idea of what he was getting into.
“I figure you could build seven houses here,” said the
realtor.
This was a big sale for him because he knew he would get
the listing to sell the homes.
“I agree,” said Don.
“How much will the owner take?” asked Joe.

9

“Well, he’s askin' $30,000, but I think you can get it for
$25,000.”
“How about $20,000?” said Joe, glaring through his large,
dark glasses, puffing on his cigar, and crossing his legs like a
big shot with his butt on the fender, his white cowboy hat
casting a shadow across his face. A string tie hung below his
collar, held together by a gold nugget that rested on his
embroidered, blue cotton shirt. A thick, carved leather belt
with a silver buckle held up his gray gabardine pants, which
hung five inches above the soles of his snakeskin cowboy boots.
Within twenty-four hours, the owner accepted their offer.
In truth, he would have sold the property for $10,000 or less.
Nobody around would buy it and the owner needed the money. He’d
been trying to sell the property for five years. He’d once had
an offer for $6,000 and rejected it.
The owner of the property was the realtor’s father. When
the realtor saw these fat cats come to town from the big city,
the price went up.
Now, this property was almost a price that Don could afford
with Joe as a partner. Don, being broke as usual, approached his
father — a rich drunk who owned silver mine in Virginia City,
Nevada — for a loan; one of many he would not pay back.
“What’s the matter with you? Your brother is successful and
making lots of money and you’re always broke. You haven’t paid

10

back all the other money you borrowed from me. What the hell are
you going to build out there in the sticks?”
“A home subdivision.”
“Nobody is building out there. You won’t sell a damned
thing in that cow patch.”
Don went back to Joe and told him he couldn’t come up with
the money for the land. Joe took back the silver saddle and
bought the property, convincing the seller he would pay him
$6,000 down, and the rest as he sold each house plus six percent
interest. The deal was done and Don had the land graded for
seven houses. Joe borrowed $8,000 through a loan on his fatherin-law’s ranch for the down payment, and pocketed $2,000 upfront
out of his father-in-law’s loan proceeds. And he planned to take
65 percent of the profits.
Don somehow was able to buy a piss-ass house on a half acre
out of town. Three months later, he rented out his five-bedroom
house in Oakland and moved into the little two-bedroom house in
Riverbank with three kids, a wife, two dogs, and Prancer the
horse.
Not knowing anything about the building business, Salami
Joe dreamed of making millions, being a big developer with a
bigger percentage of the profits in the years to come.
Don brought out his two workers from Oakland, Jim Davidson
and Larry Reed. Jim was a big, six-foot-four cowboy, originally

11

from Wyoming. He was rawboned with rough features and a
permanently broken nose that was pushed to the side of his face.
He grew up as an orphan with only a few years of schooling and
had worked on the range from the age of eight. His family became
the cowboys that he traveled with. He spoke out the side of his
mouth with a heavy tongue and had terrible manners while eating,
usually chewing a mouthful of food while talking at the same
time. Jim was a gentle giant; a kind man who loved kids. He was
married to Unis, a five-foot-tall, ninety-pound, slender woman.
They had a little girl and Jim worshiped her.
Larry was six feet tall, had brown hair, and was slender.
He talked like the actor Gary Cooper but had false teeth that
fell out occasionally, sometimes when pounding nails on a hot
day. Larry was single, his family living somewhere in Nevada.
Big Jim and Larry began digging the foundation of the first
house. Don made out the lumber list and Joe made a deal getting
the first load of lumber to the building site by hiring his
unemployed cousin, Frank. Since Frank had no experience, Joe
paid him a starvation wage. Jim and Larry watched suspiciously
as the lumber was dumped; the weight of the lumber lifted the
truck high in the air, slamming it back down hard, breaking the
axel and sending the driver to the hospital for a week’s
recovery.

12

Don contracted with Kelly’s Lumber in Riverbank to deliver
the rest of the lumber. Frank became the labor and dug the rest
of the ditches, and worked on the project wearing a back support
brace, nursing his sore back. Every time Frank tried to rest or
hide, Jim would yell for more material. It was constant
punishment without a break.
“Where the hell ya been? We need some 2 x 4 studs,” he’d
say. Or whatever was needed. Frank would groan, straighten out
his back, and head for the lumber pile.
Every Wednesday on payday, Don, Jim, and Larry went to the
local watering hole and rolled dice; the loser paid for the
drinks. Frank finished out the rest of the day and night lying
on his back, still recovering.
Don helped Jim and Larry lift up a large exterior wall that
they had just finished framing. (Nailing together) While lifting
the wall, Don stumbled. The wall fell forward and kicked up a
loose eight-foot-long 2 x 4, which caught Don in the nuts as it
bounced up.
Jim stared down at Don. “God damn it, can’t you get out of
your own way?”
Don rolled around like his balls had torn from their sack.
“You son-of-a-bitch! It isn’t funny.”
“Does it hurt?”

13

“Fuck you.” Don left the job site, walking bowlegged and
gently rubbing his crotch.
On Fridays, Don made the eighty-five-mile trip back to
Oakland to discuss business with Salami Joe at the Diamond
Horseshoe. The only thing that got done was emptying the booze
bottles and lining Joe’s pockets. Don spent the occasional
weekend with his ex-wife, when her husband wasn’t around (who
happened to be living in Oakland).
Kelly, who owned the lumber company, was in his prime.
Lumber for seven houses was a big deal for a small lumber
company in this city and county, and doubled his business. On
occasion, a bottle of good whiskey to Don kept his lumber
rolling out. In the meantime, Joe was complaining because,
without Don’s knowledge, he was making a 20 percent commission
on the lumber his cousin had delivered and expected more
deliveries from his sources to line his pockets.
The wrecked truck from the first lumber delivery was paid
for out of the building funds, which left them short of money to
finish the last house. Joe, was afraid of not making his 65
percent profit on all seven houses that Don and he had agreeded
on, loaned out the extra amount to complete the construction.
Jim and Larry banged away with some help, framing house
after house. Larry rented a room in a house just down the
street. Jim lived in a trailer on the job site. On the weekends,

14

Jim would take off for Stockton, about seventy-five miles away,
to be with Unis and his beloved daughter. He would leave a paid
half-hour early since Don was already at the bars in Oakland.
Well, thought Larry, I might as well take off too.
Jim sometimes took off for Stockton during the week to see
Unis. One afternoon, after getting little sleep the night before
after seeing Unis, he fell asleep on top of a ladder and was
found by Larry in the morning, snoring away high above.
As the first few homes were completed, Salami Joe made a
visit. “Were selling too cheap,” he said. “We need to raise the
price $500 more.”
“All right,” said Don. “We can always reduce the price if
we need to.”
That weekend, Don stayed home in Riverbank. There was a big
parade in Modesto, a town of 11,000 people, fifteen miles away.
He rode his horse Prancer with the International Foot Printers
Association, a city-slicker horse owners’ association that he
belonged to. His large white five-gallon cowboy hat kept the sun
away from his eyes above his fancy, shiny, black-and-white Foot
Printers shirt and black pants with a white stripe down each
side. He sat on the silver saddle, which he had borrowed from
Salami Joe.
Prance’s pure white mane flowed in the slight wind as the
horse brought his front legs high, dancing sideways and forward

15

down the street. Don’s fellow members followed the local
cowboys. This was the first time he had ridden Prancer in six
months. He’d made his son scrub and clean the shit stains off
the horse from not cleaning the horse’s four-foot-wide stall,
where the green shit had piled up and formed around the horse
leaving his body image behind.
When some of the houses were completed, the realtor put up
for sale signs, but only a few people showed up, mostly just the
curious locals from town. Nothing happened. Months went by and
there were no sales. The bank began hollering for their money.
They finally lowered the price. Joe screamed that he was
losing money and blamed Don. Don moved back to Oakland, taking
his family with him.
With Joe’s resentment, the price was lowered to below the
cost to build. Still no sales. The bank filed for foreclosure.
Don filed bankruptcy. Don’s new drinking hole was the Blue Inn
and Dee Club in Oakland, where he drowned himself in whiskey.
The bank was owed $46,000 and the realtor tried to sell the
houses for what was owed. The realtor’s father was going to lose
the $14,000 due him because the bank held the first note that
would clean out any claims of money due. He had received $6,000
up front, which was as much as he had expected in the first
place, but thinking of the $14,000 he expected to make, he made

16

a deal with the bank to buy the bank note for half of what was
owed, paying 23,000 for seven new houses.
Joe’s big money-making dream was in the dumps and his
father-in-law lost his ranch. The bank turned around and sued
Salami Joe for the $23,000 for the remaining amount that they
were owed. Joe lost his bar, because he had used it for
collateral for the loan. He was out of money and sold his
Cadillac.
Joe wanted the silver saddle back, but Don found out that
Joe had cheated him, and took the saddle back to his new house
in Oakland. It was displayed in the living room, where his son
had the job of shining the silver and gold every month.
Before departing from his bar for the last time, Joe
rescued his salami, still hanging over the back of the bar, with
a few flies making their claim. Joe got a job at the local
Cadillac dealership, and was back in the seat of a red Cadillac,
driving potential buyers around. One day after the customers
departed, Joe decided to go for a spin on his own. Before
leaving the car lot he placed his large Brahma bull horn in the
trunk. When he got around the corner he parked and mounted it on
the front of the vehicle, then drove the car down the street as
if he owned it. It felt good, he dreamed of owning oil wells.

17


