I walk to the new place because I am free I breathe and I walk and I am happy My belly is full and the air smell good I ate a whole chicken today! Nice people give me pets I walk to the new place because I am free I smell a bush and it smells like boy dog I pee the bush and claim it mine All the bush are mine! BORK! I hear a BORK! I look towards the bork and smell the air It is him The bush smell boy dog He see me pee the bush and he bork at me He thinks it is his bush, but it is my bush All the bush are mine His friend come and he bork at me too! They bork together. Two borkers. They bork angry BORKBORKBORKBORKORKORKB! So I bork at them back! BORK BORK BORK! I bork so hard! BORK! They bork back, but I bork louder I am the loudest borker I see two and smell three Now I see three Three Bad Dog Three BORK! Bad BORK! Dogs BORK! We are all borking now Even tho they are bigger I am bigger borker Bad BORK! BORK! Dogs BORK! One black, two grey, Three bad dog They are bigger than me Three bad dog More grey bork big But I bork biggest BORK! They bork and walk to my all sides BORK! BORK! BORK! I do not run BORK! I bork loudest I never run Unless I smell the chicken The chicken taste best No time to think about the chicken THEY ATTACK! And I LOVE! I LOVE THE BITE FITE! I spin to the one as he comes for my butt I smack him with my big paw and bite his ear I LOVE THE BITE FITE The sounds are so clear, the smells are so sharp and my heart races big in the big bite fite I LOVE THE BIG BITE FITE I AM THE BIG BITE FITE Black Bite < MY BUTT It hurt so I spin and I bite him back hard on his sniffer Black Sniffer > MY BIG BITE My bite is BIG I hear him cry but he bite at me more I spin to grey as he comes in and bite my arm It hurt, but I do not cry I never cry, I am small, but I am the biggest Smaller than some, bigger than ALL I bite grey one again I bite him big in the soft spot and he YIPE! He smell scared He is big, but very small Big dog scared small He run, not for chicken, but for cry I chase him, but my legs are small I am not fast, but I do not cry I am the big small dog And I love the big bite fite I should not have chased but I must chase the scared grey dog I HAVE TO! One and two dog chase me and now they bite me from behind I turn to bite them but big small grey dog now turns back and bites They all bite me BITE BITE BITE BITE I bite back. I do not run I spin and I bite and I spin and I bite They bite me many times and I bite them many times I hurt but I do not stop They bite me I hurt but I do not stop I keep on the bite fite I love the bite fite But I dont think I will bite much more They bite me a lot I do not run, but they are biting me big and it hurts But I do not run. I do not cry One my leg is not working so well They bite me big and it hurts I will keep biting But I dont think I will bite much more I think of the chicken I ate today, it was a good chicken I bite and think of the chicken, I do not think to run For I am small, but Big The Biggest And I never run from the Bite Fite But I am almost out of borks and bites I can smell the chicken and the sea Tasty smell with big chew bites and cronchy bones I wish I could have another chicken Black one bites me on soft and it hurts I smell the bad blood of me and I hear the waves I am almost out of borks and bites I smell the sea They bite me and it hurts, but I do not cry I am a small big dog I feel heavy I think it is time to sleep a long sleep They bite me lots all over They bite me on my soft spots It hurts and my legs wont stand They bite me big and I fall I am out of borks and out of bites and I am ready for the big sleep I am out of bites, I lose the bite fite I have never lose a bite fite, but my legs dont go I am ready for the big sleep I am all out of bites. NO! I hear the biggest BORK I ever hear Who?? He BORKS SO BIG! NO! Bigger and louder than any dog I have ever heard! And I have heard a many a big bork But not so big as his He does not bork at me He bork at them. The three bad dog The good man comes in fast He jumps in the bite pile and hit the big grey one Big grey one cries and tries to bite the man He Bork loud again NO! Big Grey tries to bite man again The man hits grey even harder and he picks me up I don't like to be pick up But I like this man, he borks so loud and I think he is my friend I don't know if he my friend I never have a friend I find sometime nice people who give me pets But no one help me in bite fite before. I always bite fite alone I don't like to be pick up, but I am too tired to No My ouches hurt and I smell my blood I let him pick me up and do not bite him He run with me clumsy on his two leg The three mean dog chase and try to bite his clumsy leg But he turns around and he BORKS at them Big one more time NO! The biggest bork i ever hear So loud it make me a little scare and I never scare but I know he help me, he bork at them not at me He Bork at them with no fear and the bad dogs know he is not scared of their borks and bites That makes them ascared of his big bork and they run away --My hurts All my hurts I hurt on my soft spots and my strong spots I can smell the hurt I hope I lick it later I feel big tired The man carry me and I give him small lick He smell good He smell good like chicken but not like chicken He just smell nice Like friend He keep me carry and I fall asleep thinking of the good man and chicken The bad borks grow quiet and I sleep TWO: I HAVE FRIEND I stop sleep and it hurts I do not know where I am No smell the same but I smell the good man I lay on something soft I smell the man and he pet me I try to roll over for the good pets but it hurts Shhhhhhh he say to me and I like the sound I smell something gross and the man put the sticky smell on my hurts I dont like it, but I am too sleepy to No And the man is good, I think he lick my wounds they are no dirt I sleep some more ------I wake when I smell the chicken It hurt to move but I want the chicken My stomach is hungry and my nose is a big hungry I lift my head and it hurt I have an ouch on my neck The man say shhhhhhhhhz'ok to me again and he is so nice He give me the pets and puts the chicken to my mouth I take nicely They give more chickens if you take nicely I eat no chew I am a hungry He feed me and feed me and feed me more So many chickens! I eat another bite of the chickens and I fall asleep happy In my dream I fite the bad dogs again They are hurting me and I feel for first time I feel small I am a small dog small I feel scared I am never scared But I feel scared in my sleeps I wake when the good man pet me he say shhhhhh'zgooooodogaalllokshhhhhh I like his sound And I sleep the more. This time with no dream ---------------------A few days I stay with the nice man He must keep licking my ouches because they get better and I do not lick I am too tired to lick I remember I do not itch There are no scratch bugs I have never felt with no scratch bugs It is nice I do not dream of the bad dogs again I dream of chickens and chasing cat The cat is fun to chase ----------------------------When I wake the man is not there But there is some chicken I smell I am on a soft, it is nice, but my hurts hurt I stand up and stretch big I eat it and stretch big again Too big stretch Ouch! I forgot my hurts I eat the not chicken, it is meat tasty from the big oinks I drink the water and stop to smell around I do not know where I am I sit and lick the ouch for a bit when I smell The man! I do not see him, but I can smell his shoes I see his shoes and smell big I like the smell Smell like friend I follow the friend smell I walk slow, my legs are tired and I hurt But i want to see my friend He is close, I can smell I sniff in few spots and know the direction. I smell good I walk and smell and smell and walk to find my friend A dog Borks at me and I bork back but my bork is a little bork I never bork little, but I am tired bork I am tired bork bork I keep walking I want my friend more than I want the bite fite And I too tired to bite fite I smell HE NOT FAR! It is good because I am tired I hear his voice he calls to me He calls to me `LUFF `LUFF! And he sound happy My tail wiggles I don't know why It does that when I hear the happy sounds `LUFF LUFF! He say it again I like that sound I slow down a little because I want to hear him say again It sound a little different closer FLUFF FLUFF! Come heeer! He say I know that sound - come heeer! It usually means food bites if I tail wiggle and make my chicken eyes Whenever I make my chicken eyes they make happy noises and give me food bites Sometimes they give me the green food or the crunchy things but I dont like I only like the Meat bites Thats why I am strong in the bite fite The green food and the crunchy things make me sleepy in bite fite So I only eat the meat bites I just have to use my chicken eyes I see my friend and hope he say Fluff Fluff again, but I am too excite to play my games I walk as fast as I can but it takes me so long and it hurts He stands and walks to me, he is so nice No one walks to me unless they want to hurt me But I know he dont hurt me He hugs me and it hurts a small From where the bad dogs bite me But I am so happy! He pick me up which I normal Hate to be pick up But I like this He say things I dont know but I know he say them for me I am so happy, my tail wiggle big He carry me to a soft spot and put me down I sit and look at him I AM SO HAPPY! My friend He sit next to me and pet me a bit He has the food on the tall place My legs are short and they don't like when you reach for the tall place He see me looking at the food and he laugh It is a happy sound He reaches for the food and gives me a bite It is the best chicken I ever taste! It is not chicken, it is the other chicken meat but it is so good He give me one more and say Good Boi I like this word I look at him with my chicken eyes but I dont even want the more chicken I just like my Friend so I look at him happy and hope he say Fluff Fluff I lie down and feel tired He pet me the long pet From my head to my tail And I sleep No scratch bugs -------------My friend sit on the angry machine and he go away Where we go? Where we go!? Bork! I run after but the angry machine go fast and my legs are ashort so I go back home and wait him come back. He gone long. Maybe three darks, I dont know, I dont count. I can count, but no remember I hope he ok. It is light again. I stay near home and wait for him --------HE BACK! I SMELL HIM! I RUN TO SMELL HAPPY But it no him, it is sock I find his sock and it smell happy I bite his sock and bring it my bed so I can sleep with his sniff It happy sock It dark again I hope my friend ok I sleep with sock and I wait -------------------"luff luff" I hear quiet and my eyes aopen IT HIM! I jump up so happy, how he sneak on me? He so sneak! But I am happy My friend is back! I jumps him and gives him many lick on face "gROSssS" he say laughing and he hug me and I happy My tail does the wiggle He grab his sock from my bed and take it inside He come back out He say "lesgo!" and start to walk The street is hot and noisy I lead my friend and he follow I guess i lead him too far tho he stop and go down another road I run and catch up and lead him some more But i guess i lead him too far again He stop and go down another nother road I lead him until it feel good on my paws THE BEACH! I lead him to the beach He catch up and walk past me so I run ahead to lead him further A bad dog comes up a sniffin so I chase him away with big BORKS! My friend sits down in the sand There are new people i dont know But he seems a friend with them They laugh when he say my name "LUFF LUFF" I run so fast to my friend, but I go slow, the sand is asquish THey laugh more I like them I sit in the middle and they pet me a much I sleep and dream and stretch and snack My friend laugh and sing and drink the smelly bottle water He laugh a much It get dark but we no go home They start to get the sticks and I help Many sticks in a big pile I like this game Such big pile sticks I KNOW THIS! The fire game sticks THe dark is darker but bright by the fire Too bright! I walk away a little I see the night shines up high I sleep and listen. My friend laughs and sings by the fire I am happy It very dark now and my friend gets up with new friend They walk down the beach so I run after to lead them They walking funny All sideways He fall down and she laugh They walking funny so I run ahead to lead them I walk ahead and lead them down the beach but I lead them too far They leave the beach and I follow I guess I dont lead them the right way they keep not going where I take them But I get them there eventually We at new place with lots of people Lots of noisy She take him inside and he tell me "Good boi" The door close so I wait Lots of people come to pet me and scratch at the door I want go inside and they do too The door open and my friend is there! He say good boi to me and put a sock on the door I dont understand but I take the sock, it smell good ---I sleep I wake when the door open My friend there His hair crazy! He say "luff!" but it quiet He sound tired He look around confuse "Take me home fluff" He say "HOme" I know home! I get up and start walking home He follow good I take him home and we go back asleep He asleep the whole day! -----------------Many day and many night Many chicken We walk and laugh and run I love my friend We adventure and play TOday was great day He pet me many I excite for tomorrow -------------------I like to sleep this time when the sun is hot But the good man come he say Luff Luff I hear from far My tail wiggle I pretend to be asleep so he say it again Fluff Fluff I make my tail quiet and keep my eyes close I am asleep I hope he think He come over, I smell his shoe smell It close! I feel the ground move a bit when he step He very close I try so hard to make my tail not wiggle I keep my eyes close but my tail want wiggle so bad! I try I try so hard but my tail wiggle BIG i Cant stop it He know He comes to me He say my name so many time! Luff Fluff! Fluff luff! I love it! I open my eyes and look at him He come at me fast almost like bite fite fast but with hugs no bites He hug me big He pick me up! I normal hate pick up but I love him My friend He pick me up big and he dance with me We spin and i watch the green grey trees go in circle He say my name so many time! FLuff Fluff Luff FLuFF! I love! He hug me too hard I dont like but I love His face all wet and salty I lick the salty face He keep say my name and I love HIs face salty tho and why it salty wet? I lick the salty wet face He feel happy sad and I confuse He say my name the same but different Luffff lufffff It sound sad He put me down which is nice I dont like pick up But I wish he pick me up again He pet me big pet many time and squeeze me I like the squeeze from my friend He look at me big I give him my chicken eyes He look at me big and say Luff Fluff I love My tail wiggle He start walk away I think we adventure! Maybe we bite fite new dog! But he climb in the box instead He look at me and say good boi My favorite word! The box close and go away I dont know where, but he back soon I know -------- I wait at home for many light and many dark I eat the chicken from the nice people but I do not see my friend It has been a while and I confuse Where he go? But sometime he go a while He always come back this I know THe scratch bug back and I bite them they itch ------I go back to the girl home from fire night She see me and say "Luffeee" Which is fine She come to pet me but I busy I sniff around and find a sock! It his sock! I remember I no find my friend tho I bring his sock home and go to bed I am tired --------- I wait at home but it no feel like home It been many dark and many light I sleep with his sock, but now it smell just like me Where is my friend? I ate a big chicken bite today from nice people, they pet me for two day! I miss my friend tho, I like his chicken bite best Do you know where is my friend? I walk the big walk, maybe I find him down the road of the Angry Box ---Many chickens I dont see my friend Have you seen him? I do not smell The smell go away many chicken ago I forget his smell if I dont smell I go back home and I wait He always come back ----Today I BITE FITE and I WIN I always win the bite fite Bad dog try to come to my home but I bite him and he run I Love the bite fite! I BORK so Big! I wish my friend could hear it I think he would call me good boi ----SO many chicken and sleep I cant rememebr what my friend smell like and I feel a little scare I never scare Where is my friend? --------It been so long He never gone so long I hope he ok Maybe he get in bite fite and I am not there to help him I feel a scare he hurt I SMELL CHICKEN!! I find nice people they give me the chicken when I make my chicken eyes but they dont say good boi They say good dog I hope my friend no hurt -----He back! MY FRIEND IS BACK! My friend come back and I have home again I have a home again! He say Luff Luff and hug me so big I love My tail wiggle wide and I love I so happy But then I wake up It was only dream I feel asad again ------I hope my friend ok Today is hot --------Its been so many hot day but now the day not so hot. I bite fite a small big dog but I dont see my friend I dont smell my friend or hear my friend I walk big walk because I am free But I no find home I find the old home but no friend It is no home ------I smell the old place The soft place where My friend first bring me but I dont smell him There are nice people but no friend I walk a new way and see the three bad dog They Bork at me and I bork back at them But they dont try to bite fite They ascared of my freind I pee all their bush. Their bush are mine My friend no come Have you seen my fren? --------I feel tired lots. Where my friend? I hope he ok I feel no hungry I sleep lots and hope he come ---------I sleep more and many but no find my friend Today I walk a new place, maybe he there Someone call me goodboi and my tail wiggle They give me chicken but it not the same, it just taste like chicken Chicken with no fren I want a home again ----------I wake my sleep I smell something and my tail wiggle I dont know why but I feel happy today Luff Fluff! I hear the happy sound I smell the happy It him! I hope no dream But if it dream I hope no wake I so happy! MY FREIND IS HERE!!!!!!! I hope no dream I KNOW IT NO DREAM! No scratchbugs in dream And i stop with an itch I scrach as fast I can and I RUN! I RUN MY FRIEND I SO HAPPY! HE PET ME SO MANY THIS MY BEST DAY I LOVE MY FRIEND CAME BACK! I LOVE MY FRIEND THREE: I DREAM ON A MOUNTAIN OF SOCKS ---Today I eat a bug It buzz by my head I dont think I chomp! The girl laugh I think she like my friend He dont sniff her butt tho But she touch him and laugh I like that sound so I find another fly bug I can chomp the fly ones They dont taste good, but they annoy so I eat them I chomp another They laugh big I am best bug hunter ---Tonight we go to the noisy place So many people So many flashy THe ground ashake All the people bite fite But no bite They jump and jump and jump My friend and the nice girl are laughing They go inside So many jumpers and I am small I watch his foot so I dont lose him They go into the jump people and jump too I wiggle between the jumpies I keep my eye on his foot I no lose him THE NOISES ARE SO LOUD He jump and jump and jump and i get a little bore It so loud But then he look down and see me HE LAUGH SO BIG Its so loud but I can hear my favorite sound He say LUFF LUFF! and pick me up He jump with me and the girl laugh All the jumper see me and laugh too So many pets at once! I never have so many pets at once My friend keep saying my name Luff luff Fluff fluff! NOW EVERYONE SAY MY NAME! FLUFF FLUFF FLUFF FLUFF FLUFF FLUFF FLUFF FLUFF FLUFF FLUFF! It like everyone here my friend! So happy BUt he jump me too much I want down I wiggle and wiggle and he kiss my head And put me down Not so many legs now The jumpers jump all around me in big circle They watch me from all side and jump in circle I sit in the middle It make me happy I have space and no scare I get step on I smile big and my tail is happy Today is good day --------------------- Please dont tell my friend I been a bad dog I steal all his sock and hide in my bed I dont know how many It is at least four I think I just like the smell so good I sleep happy in sock pile -------------- I like to sleep this time when the sun is hot But my friend come he say Luff Luff I hear from far My tail wiggle I pretend to be asleep so he say it again Fluff Fluff I make my tail quiet and keep my eyes close I am asleep I hope he think He come over, I smell his shoe smell It close! I feel the ground move a bit when he step He very close I try so hard to make my tail not wiggle I keep my eyes close but my tail want wiggle so bad! I try I try so hard but my tail wiggle BIG i Cant stop it He know He comes to me He say my name so many time! Luff Fluff! Fluff luff! I love it! I open my eyes and look at him He come at me fast almost like bite fite fast but with hugs no bites He hug me big He pick me up! I normal hate pick up but I love him My friend He pick me up big and he dance with me We spin and i watch the green grey trees go in circle I remember tho He say my name so many time! FLuff Fluff Luff FLuFF! I love! I remember this tho He hug me too hard I dont like but I love I remember this. But I cant remember what? I am so happy but I feel sad. He hug me so big, why am I sad? His face all wet and salty and I remember I lick the salty face and I remember He keep say my name and I love but I so sad He say my name the same but different Luffff lufffff He sad too He put me down which is nice I dont like pick up But I wish he pick me up again its so nice He pet me big pet many time and squeeze me I like the squeeze from my friend He look at me big I give him my chicken eyes He look at me big and say Luff Fluff I love you And I remember He say again while he climb in the angry box That the last time I see my friend I hope he come back I go back to my bed and my mountain of socks I hope they smell forever I will wait for my friend I sleep --