One day a raven--a god of air, flew across a swaddled child lying in a basket in the middle of a dessert. Angered at the sight of an unattended child, the raven shot upright and flew overhead. He drew circles above where the child lay resting but realized he could not find the child's parents. So he flew back to the earth and drew near to the swaddled child. The raven peered within the eyes of the child and the raven saw himself. The raven's reflection vanished and clouds then took shape in the child's eyes. In the reflection of the marbled eyes the raven then saw a spinning universe. Afraid, the raven shrank back and fell. The child laughed, but the raven was stunned from what he had just seen. In disbelief, he then again rose, drew himself closer to the child and began to study the glowing child. The child had paint marks all along his legs and arms. The child also studied the raven and saw how the raven's feathers were speckled in variety of white shades. The child's fingers stretched towards the raven's wing as if searching for warmth. In feeling sympathy for the child, the raven drew even closer towards him. The raven's wing touched the child's fingertips and a thunder roared within the raven. All light fell into darkness. When the light returned, the raven realized that he was no longer in a dessert, and the child was no longer a child, but a great eagle. The raven then turned around to understand where he was. As he turned he saw himself watching his own death. The raven saw himself falling and in his vision he saw how his lover was also dying. The raven felt the blow settle in his heart. The eagle waited patiently beside him and said, "Its never to late to witness from a higher stance and restore what you lost." "I've flown over this dessert, and I know every crevice," uttered the raven. But the eagle swiftly replied, "Every crevice dose not give every truth." The eagle was the creator of the all. The eagle then told the raven how the raven's lover had been summoned to the skies. Her spirit had left her body. She had returned back to her initial source. The source was the recycled energy that was present before the making of man. Her purpose would now be to keep watch over lost children in hopes she would guide the lost children in their return back to their families. The raven felt disheartened and angry that the eagle had taken his lover's life. But the eagle reminded the raven that his lover gave up her life willingly. With sullen eyes the raven pleaded to be returned to his lover. The eagle willfully agreed with the condition that he would make a new generation of man that would be less willing to lose one another. The raven agreed but much time passed before he knew how to perfect man, so in the process he had constantly wandered aimlessly in caves and cackled whenever there were rough thunderstorms. The eagle grew distraught with raven's aimless wandering, but on one July morning the large white raven flew into the sky with blood dripping from its wings. The raven had been struck by the god of time reminding him that he needed to stay on his path. The raven spoke in Nahualt and cried out to the gods of the earth, wind and sea. But none replied. The raven closed its eyes and began to fall into the ocean. As its lids collapsed, the earth began to jolt. The gods then began to form the sea into a cradle in order to impede the raven's fall. The raven however plunged deeply into the ocean and its blood began to paint and batter the sea. Sea creatures drew near to the raven to devour its flesh, but the cells of the raven began to react with the currents of water. The electricity harnessed in the currents took force within the raven's body and a light shot out from its beak. The raven turned black and silver and devoured all of the water in the sea. Some of the fish began to coil up while others began to slap their scales on the barren and dried sea floor. The raven's wings had now stopped bleeding, but anyone could now see how broken and meshed together his feathers had become. The raven began to totter towards the fish and one by one he picked them up and stacked them upon each other. The rainbows and iridescent scales of the fish glowered in the sun. He then diligently lifted his malfunctioning wings and through the manipulation of the wind he began to conjure up a magic that caused the sea creatures to grow arms and legs. But the sea creatures began to run away, so he quickly shook his head and turned them back to their former state. The raven quizzically gazed at the sun, but was then interrupted by the whale that lay behind him. The sunburned whale had dictated to the raven that although the raven had been making people for thousands of years the sea creatures themselves would be of no use to him. It was not long before the raven agreed, so he flew overhead and began to spew out the ocean from the entrails of his innermost parts. Once finished, he settled on the beach and took up a conch shell. He filled up the conch with water and as he peered into the water he saw his reflection and that of his deceased lover. The raven then asked himself--How to create a betterment of what has been done? He then looked towards his own reflection and saw how next to his reflected self was his deceased lover gazing back at him. Her plumage looked iridescent and to the raven she looked celestial. He missed her. He gazed deeper within the conch and saw how his lover clipped the wings of his reflected self. Pearlescent white blood began to roll unto his chest while tears formed in his onyx colored eyes. She then kissed him on the beak and lifted his tears to the clouds. From his tears she created the little people that would go on to live in the clouds. She then peered over to him and began to lift her wings through the water and out of the conch. She handed him the broken wings and white blood. From this he would form the people of the earth since she had already created the people of the clouds that resembled the stars, and spirit. Exhausted, he began to lay down his body and the Eagle appeared to him. The eagle blanketed the Raven's body with sage and mint, which lulled the Raven to sleep. The sleep became a deep, deep sleep. The raven was dreaming, and in his dream he was reunited with his lover. It was like their first meeting when they were once one soul before the eagle had split them in two. The eagle saw as the spirit left the Raven's body and was returned to the source. The eagle then flew over the ocean and within the eyes of the eagle there still can be seen the universe in which the raven and his lover now reside.