I lost it and for 26 years, I wandered around aimlessly without it! Filled with anger, resentment, hurt, confusion, and shame. Wondering what has happened to me! My happiness and joy, selfishly stolen from me. What do I do? Where do I go? Who do I tell? Someone help me! I feel like I'm dying inside. I need to be saved from this terrible tragedy. This isn't right! No one said such things would happen to me. I'm hurting! I'm petrified and I want someone to rescue me. I'm stuck and no one hears my cries or my screams. Please someone, anyone save me and just take me far away! I can't take this disgust! This terrible, terrible disgusting pain! Grandma! She loves me! She'll listen to me and save me! She will take me away! She will help and protect me. I'm her favorite girl. Her first grandbaby and she would never let any harm come to me. Finally, alone with grandma to speak my truth! Only to be sent back to an uncomfortable place. All she told me was tell your mother if it happens again. Again! No wait! Please I never want this to happen to me ever again! Please don't make me go grandma! Please let me stay with you! Tears filled my eyes like endless oceans. I was dying inside slowly and I needed to be rescued. I just want to run far away! Mama, the one who birthed me and put so much fear in my tiny little soul. Would she help? Would she believe me? Well, I did it grandma! I told my mom on our morning ride to school! She looked hurt, raged, and shocked but wait why was the car returning me back to a place I no longer wanted to be and afraid to be. My mom wanted answers and confirmation for what I had just revealed to her. I had to sit quietly waiting for her to reach a verdict. I prayed my mom would save me. Deadend! The two most trusted women in my life as a young girl had become unfamiliar and I was just as helpless and confused! Shamed and back side beaten by the woman that birthed me. What did I do? What was happening? I didn't ask for any of this and I just know this isn't right! Take me back to when it was simple. My barbies! My sega genesis, fishing with my grandfather, and riding my two wheeler up and down the street. I just want to be a ten year old kid but i'm not even sure what its like to be a ten year old. My reality as a young girl was taken advantage of and no one even thought to save me. No one saved me from the monster! No one saved me from my mom's monster! No matter where I ran or hid, I would always live in fear! No closet nor lock kept the monster away! Robbed of my innocence! Abused and tortured for over a decade. Not even my own grandma would help me! Emotionally, physically, and mentally abused. My spirit submerged in a dark, dark place! What did I do to deserve these horrific touches? Why am I being forced to live like this? I'm ten! Why am I being forced to live like this? I know this can't be right! Why doesn't anyone believe me! No one loves me! No one will ever hear me! I just don't want to be here. My heart doesn't beat the same anymore! My smile I'm not even sure where I left it! I'm just stuck here with with a permanent frown and afraid of the people who are supposed to protect me. That ten year old girl suffered a tragic end and was robbed of a childhood. A monster that stole my innocence and the ones that claimed to love me watched as I lived with this awful shameful secret. My soul stripped from my body! No one heard that ten year old calls or even cared to ask why that permanent frown even exists. Surrounded by monsters in a sunken place. My cries and screams for help went unnoticed and soon became silenced and well me numb! As long as the women whom I thought would protect me had their lifestyle I would always be wrong and blamed for what I was made to believe was my imagination. Clearly we didn't view this distress the same! I just want to go where no one could hurt me. A place where I am protected and loved! I told the truth! it was dismissed! ten year old me was repeatedly abused, manipulated, and what felt like toture just never ended. Who's coming to save me? Who's going to protect that ten year old girl that's now an adult? Silenced at ten!