When one ponders time they often get boggled. Their own life seems like eternity especially if you are lucky enough to live into old age. Although it may feel like eternity your life isn't even noticeable on the grand line of what we have called Time. It's a fact of our existence on this planet in this solar system and beyond also to the ethereal realms of spirit and love. Time as we have observed has been around for a really long, at loss for another word, time. So this is where our story leads us, to a place long ago when the planet we call Earth was a little younger, say 250 million years ago, when what we call dinosaurs roamed the land. From now on the name dinosaur will not be used in this entry, given the fact that dinosaur means something scary in Latin and that we only know what they're all about through here-say of looking at their bones and trying to figure out there time through the evidence they left millions of years ago. I feel what we really know is that their world was warm and fertile and the stars would have been completely different given our solar system was on the other side of the Milky Way galaxy. From now on these mysterious creatures will be referred to as GCOMI (Giant creatures of Massive Intelligence). I feel no explanation is needed given no evidence against the fact GCOMI, as what their name pronounces, were intelligent. Now that we have that covered we can go back to Iceland where at this date in the year 2021, has begun investigation into whether the outlying coast is actually part of Iceland and not the oceanic floor which is protected by international law. Basically Iceland is trying to say that it is their continent just covered in millions of metric tons of sea water. If it is their land then because the world is run on resources that are found rich in the oceanic floor they could find massive profit from mining operations. Now this is where things begin to get interesting because unknown to the Icelandic business board or anyone else on the surface of Earth is that below those waters and within the ground their is a running society of GCOMI who because of the actions about to be put forth by humans have decided to emerge to communicate with the humans so they will not destroy the GCOMI's home. For millions of years no one has seen them but for the first time (and the absolute last time I use this name) in a long time the Dinosaurs will roam the Earth. Long ago like yesterday Millions of years ago after millions of years of evolution the GCOMI had an ideal world. The residents of the land balanced themselves in harmony with the Nature of Reality they had found themselves. Monumental architecture in balance with the natural features scattered the land everywhere a GCOMI individual went giving the world a communal feeling and thusly promoted more evolution and more love. Millions and millions of years went on like this until the planet itself started to change and many disasters occurred, their homes destroyed, their lives ruined by the unending law of Mother Nature. They were scattered like their cities before but now as a primal state and millions and millions of years went on like this until the great collapse from famine and environmental disaster and from their unlucky location in the orbit of the Sun led to an ultimate destruction of the majority of their kind. The GCOMI who live under the ocean off the coast of Iceland, these GCOMI are the last of their kind, and their home is our home, its the only place they can live, in the water in the ocean, but as time moved on for hundreds of millions of years they sat peacefully rebuilding as an aquatic entity, bringing back monumental architecture and their long lost civilization and having it hidden and secure until the day they would be forced to emerge again, that day being very soon as the plans are made and rules altered to start exploring for economic gain, meaning explosions and mining, meaning the GCOMI will hear the gears and machines grinding closer to their home, the day had come and now the GCOMI will emerge. Early morning Icelandic coast The rumbling could be felt for days before hand. The machines had not been placed yet and there was still litigation on whether the ocean floor was Iceland or not so the rumbling was slightly concerning. Iceland being a very active volcanic country locals assumed it was earthquakes and magma sloshing around out there causing little to no concern to residents. Then the rumbling finally went quiet, and on this day off the coast of Iceland the GCOMI showed themselves and a poor old man drinking a cup of coffee on the sea docks had a heart attack the first time he saw them. The kids are back I guess they will be back for millions of years, perhaps longer than the humans. Anyway nothing much has changed, there was an agreement made between the nations of Earth and the GCOMI that the whole world watched. A declaration was signed by both parties, it was televised on all channels. The declaration stated, in simple terms: as long as we leave them alone, they'll leave us alone. When asked if they knew of any other GCOMI their overall expression was towards the negative. Regardless, the dry land is still human run primarily but because of the potential of awaking more GCOMI all mining operations have halted and the planet has been powered by Sunlight ever since. One may actually say the GCOMI saved the world, at least for now. Personally being an anthropologist I find the GCOMI to be the most fascinating when it comes to the mysteries of their cultural customs and their lineage of eons past. I would say it was a type of telepathy they used to communicate and it was mostly basic in nature, pretty much saying "what's up, we're here, don't mess with our home, bye" With the advent of their reemergence cults have grown around them and the world is deeply divided on whether to call them GCOMI or just COMI, its a harsh debate but one that will never over shadow the fact that humans for all our arrogance and self pity found a way to leave the world alone and let it stay in balance. I would like to know more about the GCOMI , their funeral rites, their concept of time, their structure of civilization but alas, the mystery continues but unlike before we now know we are not the most dominate force in nature, Time will always hold that title.