Daisy and Rose are two young sisters who had a perfect life. Both of the sisters grew up in a loving home in the woods. The two sisters used to live in harmony with their parents. Everything was beautiful. The house was full of butterflies and fresh nature air. The house was surrounded by greens and trees that could illuminate through the forest. The young sisters can hear the birds chirp and feel the warmth of the morning sun through the window. Life was perfect. However, everything changed when the two sister's Mother turned bitter from her husband's passing. The mother lost her soul and her ability to care about anyone but herself. Therefore, the two sisters will forever see the darkness fill the house with the Mother. Years of guilt overwhelmed the Mother and the guilt eventually turned in to sadness. Time passes, and the stench of mold and mildew that fills the air in the house, and the fresh nature air vanished like it never existed. The house turned in to a cold, dead heart that Daisy and Rose will never ever call a home. Suddenly Daisy and Rose can hear the sobbing of their mother, which was quite normal for them, but something was different this time. The two sisters glance into the room. Both the sisters watch their mother turn into a scary creature while holding dead flowers. The sadness is too unbearable for the Mother. Daisy and Rose become shocked and worried. The young girls are trapped by the horrific creature that once was a beautiful loving mother. All Daisy and Rose see is manipulative creature that sucks souls and drains people of their worth. The scales on the creature are like razor sharp knives that cut through the walls and tear the feathers out of pillow cases. Its eyes are filled with an endless darkness and the sadness of loss. It takes the idea hope and happiness away in the blink of an eye. Daisy and Rose have wounds all over their bones making bandages are a joke to them. The creature has trapped them in the house lie roots from a tree. The two young girls only feel safe in their beyond small closet where they imagine a better life. All of a sudden Daisy and Rose can see their mother slither like a snake down the hallway. However, the sisters knew their Mother is full of anger and resentment instead of the normal sadness. The creature bends its back and twists it around until they can hear it produce a crack so loud that it shatters the windows. Rose had a ghostly look on her face because she knows she had done something really unacceptable. The creature gives Rose a grin and grabs Rose by the neck. Daisy asks, "But, but, what did R-R-Rose do?" The Mother gives a pout and responds, "Hehe, oh Daisy, Rose has been writing down thoughts on how to escape on the back wall of the closet! I can't let you leave, I'll have no one!" Daisy stares a Rose like she knew what was going to happen next. The Mother kills Rose and sucks soul from her body. Daisy's knees lock up, and she falls to her knees incomplete sadness which made the Mother laugh. In this exact moment Daisy knew she had to escape once and for all. As the Mother laughs all the way down the narrow hallway, Daisy had to think logically. She headed to her closet to regain her strength to fight, but she noticed something shiny on the floor with a note which said, Dear my beautiful sister, This is what I have been working on. We both know my life is over, but you need to keep fighting. You know what to do. Love Always & Forever, Rose At first, Daisy had no idea what it was, and it was so unfamiliar. Then she realized what it was. It was hope. It was a second chance. A second chance of taking back her freedom. Daisy slowly walked on her crusty dirty feet to her mother. Daisy says, "Hey, Mother would you like to play a game of hide and seek?" Daisy thought this was a smart idea to distract her Mother. The Mother says, "Sure, sweetie." They both starts counting down from twenty. Daisy knew she only has limited time. As soon as the mother says, "One." The Mother twisted its body around and gave a grin, and searches for Daisy for a while becoming very suspicious. The Mother sees Daisy's shoes behind a curtain full of holes and says, "Gotcha". However, Daisy tricked the manipulative mother at her own game. As the Mother turns its body, Daisy threw the shiny piece of hope on to the Mother's razor sharp scales. However, everything becomes blurry and unsettling. All Daisy can see is darkness, and thought to herself "Am I dead?" She could feel the sadness almost like a burn on her skin. Daisy says, "I'm taking back my freedom, Mother." Daisy says out loud to herself, "It's all over." Daisy walked out of the house that changed her life forever. She felt the grass between her toes and the air full of the sweet smell of flowers. She will never let anyone steal her freedom and hope for a great life ever again. Rose grabbed her hand. Daisy and Rose will now shine together like shooting stars in the night sky.