She's a San Franciscan beauty not just cute with her hair French twisted in her Edith Head suit. Receiving a spritely whistle as she walks this day, passing Alf, Geoff and Stanley along her way. She's ordered a Mynah bird from India, hoping it can talk but at 3 PM it's yet to arrive, causing her to sulk. A Lawyer enters Davidson's and sees her there with arrogant eyes in a judgmental glare. He knows who she is, her Father's reputation of words, he pretends he doesn't by requiring Love birds. When she looks at him, her innards go hairy; she starts acting like a Clerk and shows him Canaries. When challenged to retrieve him one in hand, it flies in an ashtray making a land. There it was and there it sat, till the poor little creature gets caught with a hat. "Back in your gilded cage Melanie Daniels" said the Pleader to the Squealer as he slipped it into its Cell. "What did you say"? She asks with regret "Hey! I don't know you, we've never met". "May I remind you", He says with retort, "We've never met but I've seen you in court". With an angry tongue she calls the man a louse, he agrees with her kindly and exits the house. She follows him out as he leaves the place, scribbling down the number of his license plate. WJH003 She phones Daddy's office and speaks with Charlie. Daddy's the co-owner of a newspaper press, easily obtaining the man's name and address. "Deliver the Mynah, MacGruder" She tells the pet shop clerk, "And give me a cage with two love birds". She drops the bait off at the threshold of his pad to be hopefully assumed from a friend. To be informed by the ogling neighbor, "He's gone away for the week-end". "Where did he go?" She asks by the way. He said "Same as usual, to Bodega Bay". "Where is that?" She asks with a smile. He said "up the coast about sixty miles". Then, without packing a bag, thinking come what may, she takes a road trip north as the sweethearts swayed. So why did the birds wage war that day? And why did they do it in Bodega Bay? Did Miss Daniels Cause the Aves Enrage? Traveling PCH with the Agapornis caged? She had her sights on a man named Mitch and a reputation of being a witch. His last name was Brenner and she didn't even like birds. It's true! She was nothing more than a spoiled little brat. "Daddy do this" and "Daddy do that". Soon she arrives in Bodega in search of the man, unaware of the carnage that the Birds had planned. She learns from the Postman by using her charm, the exact location of the Mitch Brenner Farm. He said "It's the home over there" pointing across the water, "I'll phone for a boat it's really no bother". Not sure if it's Alice or Lois, the little sister's name, He sends her to the Child's Teacher's house up the lane. She parks her car in front of a red mailbox, then rings the cottage door but applies no knocks A voice from out back inquires, "Who's there"? Melanie says "Me" in casual flair. "Who's me?" The raspy voice demanded in subtle jest, then on to the screen appears Suzanne Pleshette. Melanie learns from the teacher all she needs to know, the name of Mitch's sister and the way she should go. She then takes a boat and crosses the bay; under the assumption it's the Sister's Birthday. She leaves the coop with a card on the Ottoman in the den and then sneaks out the back to avoid seeing him. Back in the boat she paddles away, stopping to watch in midst of the bay. Mitch is elated and strangely stirred as he spies through binoculars and sees that it's her. Just when she thought it was all nice and neat, a Seagull swooped down to cut her head with its beak. Mitch races to the dock where she drops off the rental, wiping the blood from her brow he asks her to dinner. Now Mitch's Mother, Lydia, was ill at ease with Miss Daniels there and lets the Socialite know it by giving her these smug little stares. She's a "trifle distant", the acting uncanny, no one could play her like Jessica Tandy. Yet little sister Cathy, spelled with a C, takes up right away with the blond Melanie. It's Lambert from "Alien". Who could forget that Face? She's sister to Penny Robinson from "Lost in Space". Cathy says to Melanie, "Oh! Won't you please stay? A surprise party is planned for my 11th birthday". So Melanie stays with the excuse of this, while secretly sharing a tryst with Mitch. She buys an old-fashioned nightie at the general store and then shows up at the Teacher's house for room and board. Annie offers Melanie a quilt and some brandy, being hard pressed to conceal her jealousy. After realizing they both love the same man, they react to the sound of a loud door pound. They go to the porch, opening the Portal to check, discovering a flat-lined Mew with a broken neck. Next day at the Party as the cake is brought out, everyone's startled by a little girls shout. A siege of Heron in a vengeful attack, the kids are rushed inside as beaks jab at their backs. Then! That night after dinner, sensing something's afoul, Melanie spies a small bird in the fireplace trough. Suddenly! Down through the chimney came Sparrows galore but with Mitch thinking quickly flew out the side door. The very next day, they were Blackbirds or Crows, pursued all the children as they ran down the road. It happened again in the middle of town, they were stuck in "Tides" with birds all around. As an Irishman at the bar proclaims "It's the end of the world", the odd Miss Bundy challenged the girl. Melanie exits, giving a shoo, ending up safely with a panoramic view. Her nerves were fried due to the gas station explosion so during this scene she shows lots of emotion. Mitch forages for Melanie and finally finds her; he pulls her out of the booth and takes her back to the Diner. Everyone there's huddled in a corner scared to death, suffering Ornithophobia, fretting what they'll do next. A hysterical Mom accuses Melanie in a vicious verbal attack. Melanie takes offense to this and gives the Mother a smack. .........An awkward moment passes by......... "We must go get Cathy" Mitch suddenly sighs! Now Melanie had lied saying she was Miss Hayworth's college friend but after all that was done, Annie was in the end, a true friend! Approaching her house, the view from the street, Annie sprawled on the ground with no eyes or heartbeat. Mitch was compelled and sadly provoked. He covers her body with his gray tweed coat. "Don't leave her there, Mitch" Melanie espoused, so he picks up the corpse and carries it in the house. They bowed their heads to silently mourn, walking cautiously to the car to go back to the farm. "Annie saved my life" crying Cathy said "She pushed me inside" and now she's dead! Meanwhile Lydia's at home, left with thoughts of Dan Fawcett, after discovering him dead without eyes in his sockets. She was a wreck especially alone but the burden was lifted when her children got home. Now in order to make the house more secure, Mitch covers the windows with some two by four's. Then came horrible sounds, striking terrible chords, as thousands of birds began pecking the boards. There were Pigeons and Wrens, Thrushes and Pelicans, Starlings and Finches, Cardinals and Falcons, Eagles and Hawks, Ravens and Larks, Swallows and Robins, they had all gone amok. Then, for no good reason and close to the end, Melanie goes upstairs and is attacked again. The door slams shut as she slides to the floor, getting flogged by a flock, her body blocking the door. When Mitch finally grabs her, he drags her out; she's clawing at air, unable to shout. With her green suit ruined and her coiffed bun a shambles; the state of her mind was somewhat scrambled. "Synopsis" Mitch gives her some brandy, probably should have been water. They bandage her face and throw the mink coat on her. When they open the door, they for acres can see that the ground is all covered with irate poultry. They gingerly haul her to the Convertible Car, then drive away slowly till they get real far. Birds.........Everywhere Birds......LIVID Birds! Swans and Cockatoos, Vultures and Owls, Flamingos and Parakeets, Parrots and Grouse, Sandpipers and Whippoorwills, Woodpeckers and Snipes, Ducks and Geese, All coming with gripes!