The hollowness of emptiness saturated the blankness of space clearly surrounding an enormous barren rock. An explosive of massive proportion thus the darkness into a blasted light created heaven separating heaven from the massive to a stratosphere. Above the heavenly environment transformed into a living, breathing, distinct, bountiful planet. Jewel of glacier shaped the mass opened to the awesome beauty of wonder between sky and soil. Split bloomed awesome paradise, immense oceans watered once a barren surface transformed into glorious foliage oasis with vivid hues. Waterfalls trickled over sharped edges of jaded hills in majestic uniqueness. Rainbows arch of magnificent magnitude circle as the heavenly shield in glamour tones in an exquisite array of colors torching the earth brightly. Everywhere Almighty touched arrays of assorted plants, flowers, thorny rose of many shades in a crescent decor as though the designs of a great architect of rare talent abundantly placed them in an amiable pattern embedded tender roots deep in verdant grasses. In the midst of the floral decorative cove, trees sprung forth breaking through the rich ebony soil, luscious with leaves of a shading nature, some decor fruits of many sorts releasing aphrodisiacs aura to all living under their covering. Earth sprouting seeded itself in the churning ambers fertilized with juices of evolutionary love spread wide in the settling creation. Among the unique growth, two specimens of trees stood alone, rustic trunks deeply buried roots plumped deep in cradling moist bed. An enteral grip. Golden fruit hung incomparably from protective limps. Natural boundaries cradle all dear to the creative Almighty. Mounts of thunderous mountains, enormous to sloping hills kissed the heavens shadowing what became a living planet, touched deep inside solid foundation earth. Light sprinkles from floating cushioning clouds hovered above in the bluest of skies. Like a gracious ballerina dancing on the sands, delicate fingers whipped clumps of silty clay, shaped by an artistic hand, prepared unanimated phenomena configuration. Miniature to immense, spouted in novel designs, embellished fingers fashioned unimaginable creatures, two of each, quaint, rose off the earthy canvas. Colors came about, spots, stripes, solid shades, long neck, short, invisible in creature's shells, crawlers, runners, swimmers, mange, shaggy, smooth, mingled in the uniqueness of the created creation. God breathed life forth, multiple permeated life, luscious symphony, sounds of released, echo across the floral garden. And from the soil delicious food for all to ingest. Nuts, wheat, barley oats, fruits of all persuasion, vegs. Ample garden, free to roam, abundance, peace among the magnitudes. Resting upon the highest mountain peak, molecules of sprigs eased outward forming mist touching all of the new earth. Clouds formed and shaded, sprinkles of cleansing rain watered the lakes, streams as creatures enjoyed. Ah, the massive creations completed. Yet something was amiss. Who was to care, named the animals, and enjoy all that had been groomed upon what was once a harsh rock? Sitting in the pit of formable clay, using images of himself, sturdy arms, legs, muscular chest, a man formed. Examining him, thought about the loneliness suffering, again reached inside the man's chest, removed a rib, shaping the clay to opposite of him. Satisfied, he raised them with a breath of life. "You are Man, in charge of all you see before you." Pointed to woman, for you. She shall care for you, earth, precious souls of my magnificent creatures. Name them all that abide in my gardens, enjoy God's awesome gifts. Another sun has set, like many other days in the garden, Woman relaxed by the clear water stream allowing the silverfish to jump in her lap. She lazily kissed them as they wobble back to the cool water lake. The midday sun cast down warmth on the lush, verdant earth. Animals played nearby, and a robin red-breast rested on her bare shoulder. Zebras pranced on the grassy slopes, while tigers grabbed playfully at each other's swishing tails. Lions lay about absorbing the heat, giraffes nibbled on the high leaf tree branches, lambs chopped on the longbladed grass growing on the sloping hill. Stomping hoofs of racing horses were heard thundering in the background. Serenading sounds, Woman easily ignored, none able to disturb the peaceful tranquility of her wondrous day. Laying back against the soft herbal bed of rosemary moss, picked at mushrooms, savory their tastiness while she devoured some. Her smooth honey-skin enjoyed the feel of the subtle rays bathing her naked body. Little sprinkles of rain seldom fell nor did cold or chilly weather intrude in this unique garden. Perpetual medley acreage not stained by thoughtless abuse with plenty of space for rambunctious and slow-moving creatures abiding within its boundaries. Cockatoos chatter competed with chirping birds serenading with music of cricking crickets causing a lingering desire to sleep. Gracious trees dipped low to add shade from the soft rays of the gentle sun. Squirrels, fluffy rabbits and dogs cuddled near her slender feet. Insects scrambled about close to her shapely body eagerly seeking closer contact with the beauty lying lazily on the soft grass. Simply, calming bliss was the unchallenged mood on this rapturous day. In the center of the garden, groves of flourishing trees saturated, outstretched branches held out in humble greeting. Their full branches swaying slightly in benign breezes, providing shade, and homes to many novel creatures. Brown and black monkeys raced through branches, cats curled near black-stripped skunks, lone white strip shimmering from its pointed head down fatty backs to the end of its fluffy tail, and wise owls hovered watching over the peaceful oasis. Harmonious tones among the many species of birds from blue jays to meadowlarks added a melody of sounds. A woodpecker was busy pecking a decorative decor' in a birch's trunk. Soft grasses pillowed the grounds, and an array of vivacious flowers blossomed in patches. Cushioned of leaves gave softness to the animals resting upon them. Pretty cherub, with a crop of onyx curls, relaxing against the buttress roots having a nonsense conversation with handsome Snake, stripes and plentiful colors adorned his lean body. "What mischief are you about?" he asked his cunny friend of many shades. "The woman laying by the silver stream, what do you think? Can she be tempted away from the ways of our keeper?" Snake stretched the length of his strong body alone a sturdy branch. "Ah, I love orchids," he put loose a few, slipping them in his full-lipped mouth. "Snake, you think dangerously. Consequences exist for every action, my friend," Wily Willow, the cherub warned, wrapping his short, muscular body around a root, pulling at its bark with his long, front teeth. "This sap is so very sweet." "I wish I had wings like the butterflies," Snake melancholy thought. "Maybe wings are something earned," Wily Willow twisted upside down. "He does not give gifts easily." "We are prettier and can do more, but he seems to favor the useless Man and Woman," he grumbled. "Be quiet and eat a peach," Wily Willow chastised him. "No, I'll eat fish, instead." "Don't you dare! Wrath shall be upon your slick head," he warned. "Besides, the slithering things cannot taste as good as delicious, juicy peaches and sweet tree sap." "I am wondering what it would be like to chew on them with my pearly whites," Snake grinned. "Such thoughts, I am going to find Man, and ride a pony," he untwists himself from the roots hopped off into denser shrubberies. Suddenly, Lu rose, emerging on top of the spouting grasses and took a seat on the buttress root close to Snake. "Hello, Snake. It is a good day." "All are good days, Lu. What do you want? Our keeper does not want you here. Go home, and play among your thickets," Snake refused to glance at this ancient angel whose glow was capable of melting glacier ice. For to look at Lu was to see the brightest, warming hue, pulsating from his comely physique. Attractiveness, unlike his, seldom seen. Camel streaked 6/The Garden hair evidence of the sun's halo crown, penetrating silver glowing eyes and ruby lips begging for kisses. Cherubs played with the Man and Woman but dare not entwine with a grandeur angel. "They are not greater than you, Snake," Lu affirmed, putting his slender hand on the ground, allowing roaches and worms to crawl on him. He quickly shook them in his gaping mouth savoring the feel of the tiny creatures tumbling down his scorched throat. Thirst never sedated. Snake wondered if all the ancient elements lived inside Lu. Depending on which way he stood, oceans of waters, clouds of other times seemed to be cloaked of his outer skin. To touch him was to burn. Yet, fire was unseen. "Who says they are?" "I am just telling you they are not. You want to play a game." Snake laughed, "Game with you? Already, I have lost." "A simple, harmless game with the luscious Woman," he tempted him. "It will not be dangerous. The aftermath shall fall on her, and not us." "Lu, haven't you enough of being on His downside." "All sides of him are bad when it comes to me. I am prettier than him. My song pierces through thunder. My fingers paint pictures causing the earth to swoop. He is haggard...ancient. I am the greater one. Someday I shall prove it." "Shush, don't talk like that. Monkeys tattle." Snake swung higher branches of the kapok tree. No monkeys hanging near. Gossipers sharing everything they heard to any listers. "Where is Man?" Lu asked. 7/The Garden "Busy naming the animals, too many of them. Such a task was given to Man, tagging His newest creations, and not us cherubs designed before him." "Good," Lu mumbled. "What did you say?" "Nothing, cherub," Lu smiled, and the sun seems dim. "The babbling brook flow on the outside. Puddles form in oceans sedates the ragged earth for planting. Someday I will take you there, more beautiful than this stagnant garden. Unimagined sights, not like any scenery seen by you, sweet cherub. Freedoms where you can find plenty who look like you." He enticed curious Snake imagination desiring more to be more than what he was. "Have you looked upon sacred grounds?" "No, not I! He shan't punish me," Snake shook his head, having an instant anxiety attack. Trembling, though not enough for Lu to notice, he assumed. "How much more can he punish you? You are stuck in the garden and cannot leave with me. I can go where I please, do what I please, eat animals if I want to. You have already received the greater punishment, life under the shadows of Man and Woman." Lu flew up to the highest branch of the kapok tree, hopping from one branch to another as if to make a point. Skipping over timid plants without crushing pliable petals, caught colorful parrot mid-air, and squeezed it until its head flopped. "I am free, and you, my little almost angel is nothing...not!" He slipped to the ground gliding closer to him. Snake quickly averted his eyes from looking at this magnificent creature. His brightness illuminating, feeling the eternal heat radiating from him, urging him to run before burning. 8/The Garden "Want to play a touchy, feeling game? I promise it will not hurt you nor is it likely to hurt Woman. It will only give enlightenment to the workings of creation. If a creature learns this, he becomes more holy," he spread his wings, glorious angel. "Feel, touch, awakened to new growth. Come here cherub, I shall show you what the Master does not want you to know." "I will not disobey Him." Snake became adamantly fearful. He knew Lu had greater powers than a lowly cherub-like him, was he enhanced enough to hear his whispering? "Come cherub, I will not hurt you." Lu reached for Snake, hugging him close as a loving babe. Snake was extremely surprised he did not burn, but instead, felt comfortably warm. "Ah..." escaped his lips. "You see, Snake, He does not always tell the truth. I will give you a little knowledge, my innocent cherub." Lu pushed his long thumb up the opening for waste expulsion in Snake's bottom. Snake wiggled from the hurtful ripping of penetration. "Be still! I shall give you pleasures you have no knowledge of." He held the little Cherub closer to the burning core near his enter self, enticed sexual responses from his non-sexual innocence. The beating of his excited heart does a quickened pace. Lu's hot, burning lips touched the cherub, moved to suckle the plump nipples on his chest. Snake moaned in fascination, sweet pleasure...throbbing pain. Only Lu, and others like him, can awaken uncomprehending sensations in earthly creatures. He was certain of this. Lu released him, letting him bounce against the leaf-carpeted ground, joining him there. Kissing and loving the little cherub, who had not been groomed to a pleasure center inside his 9/The Garden youthful form. Sensual pleasures seeped into Snake, pleasures which had never been experienced, fashioned by Lu's gifted touches. Lu picked up Snake and carried him to the center of the master's garden. Rushing sounds of cascading waters falling from the mountain cliffs formed a holy mist tipping on earthy vessels. Cacao trees wide limbs spread wide a huge monument over sacred grounds. Pineapple-crusted fruit hung from its spreading limbs. "Lu," Snake feared, "This fruit is forbidden." "Have no fear. It is good. Taste great. Make you more God-like, like me, gaining knowledge unknown to you nor Man." "How to escape from this garden, see what is beyond the invisible gate?" Snake sighed. "He said eating from this tree, shall surely lead to unforgiving punishment. He who eats of this fruit will surely die, was his exact warning." "No Snake, eating it shall give you life beyond your limited imagination. You will become like me, full of knowledge, know good and evil. Come to me, worship me, I shall become your new master. Don't you want to see what is beyond the garden, wondrous joys of constant appeasements? New adventures awaken in my little Snake. Satisfy your yearning ache to taste dead meat from living creatures, instead of the earth's producing sweetness sprouting from its garden. I shall give them to you to taste, savage...eat." "What is adventure, Lu?" Snake curiosity surged, how does hot blood inside taste? Lu's enticement alluring. "Pleasures, I have given you, it will forever be yours. Man and Woman will no longer have dominion over you. You must do something for me before you eat 10/The Garden of this fruit. Half of my kingdom I will share with you Snake, much more than in this suffocating, isolated garden." "Half your kingdom, you have a kingdom? Only He has ownership over all that can be seen." "I have kingdoms that cannot be seen," Lu countered. "The earth.... All of the earth," he hissed, "He gave it to me!" "No Lu, He cast you out, I saw it. The animals speak of it," Snake challenged. "Did He not deliver me somewhere?" Lu countered. "I am his more than you." Snake shook his blond head in agreement. Lu had to be sent somewhere. Why not a better place than the garden? Wasn't Lu created before him, or Man and Woman? Doesn't he love him still? "Well then, the earth became mine to do with what I will. Join me, Snake, wander far beyond this limited place," he sprayed his arms wide. "I will give you more than what you have in this small garden. You shall fly through heavens and play on the amazing earth with me. Enjoy all pleasures denied to you, my sweet cherub, beautiful cherub," he cooed. "Heaven and earth," wonderment clouded his vision. Snakes jumped around on his feet, twirling and dancing to noiseless rhymes. "You say I shall be greater than Man and Woman?" "Yes, little cherub. Do this minor, insignificant thing for me, and all of earth, shall be yours to rule," Lu smiled, his dimples heightened his beautiful aura. His folded wings almost came undone. 11/The Garden Bouncing happily, "Better than Man and Woman. He shall love me most. Alright, alright, Lu, what would you have me do?" Joyously, he breathed in. "You must convince the shaggy-haired woman to taste of the forbidden pleasure, bathe in its rapturous juices. Snake knees began to knock, shuttered repletely, fear smothered him. "What is mine, I shall share with you after we leave this place...together. Such pleasures given to you will take your breath away. Never again be envious of Man and Woman. He, the most ominous, will be pleased for...they, huh, you will be more like Him. Status, Man nor Woman, can never achieve," Lu warmed him inside with soothing touches. "Alright Lu, I will do it." Snake had never experienced flagrant lying. "I will be waiting." Lu dissolved in mist. Snake sought the Woman running with antelopes. "Woman, he called to her, appreciating the light glistering on her flawless caramel skin, and the perfection of a shapely form that was only hers. No other creatures in the garden appeased his slanted eyes more than her. "Come see the new flowers growing under the tree in the center of the garden. I haven't seen another like them." "His tree," she asked, her doe-eyes curiously glanced down at him. "Come, Woman, I race you there." Snake takes off running swiftly, his long feet barely touching the moss-covered ground. 12/The Garden She collided with him when he made an instant stop. Their bodies touching, Snake reached out stroking the Woman's breast. His slender fingers lightly caressed her until his hand reached her enter thigh, rubbed her tender flesh there. "Oh, what are you touching?" The woman bent over looking down between her legs, trying to see what Snake touched to give such pleasurable sensation. "Woman, the tree will give you an understanding of what you just felt," he lured her. "He who is all said all the trees with fruit, herbs of the ground we may eat, but not fruit from this tree. He promised if we eat of this tree, we shall surely die." Woman walked under its shady limbs. The fruit was dark as nutmeg, encrusted with earthy tones. "You will not die. You become like Him," Lu cooed, smiling. The Woman closely exampled the darkened fruit, ripe, hanging freely wondering was it tasty like all fruits? Lu was close to Him. She heard the whispering waters falling over the cliff mountain cascading warnings. Do not. Surely, the fruit is harmless, Lu knows. She shall become like Him. Perhaps, only touch her rosy tongue. Snake pushed her on the soft moss, just under the shading branches of the life tree. Opened her long legs, searched between them, his finger tenderly played with her sensual flesh. He had her rolling with him while causing her stimulation. Lu said give pleasure this way to Woman. She cries out, "Oh...ohoo, what did you do in the center of me?" She giggled, "I must show Man how to touch me so." 13/The Garden "Woman," he helped her to her feet, "Take the fruit from the lower branch," He dare not touch it for fear of His lingering spirit. Monkeys, also, maybe watching. He searched his surroundings for Lu. "This fruit will teach you how to make tickles. Tiny bite," he caressed her naked breast. "Tiny bite," she repeated as though in a trance. Him shouldn't miss this one," Woman pulled the heavenly fruit from its mother stem. The fruit was quite ordinary. What was so special about it, light, pears, apples? Snake worried. Magical. Woman nibbled at its golden skin. "Make sure she gets most of the fruity flesh in her mouth," Snake heard Lu's subtle instructions, grabbing the fruit from the Women's hand, he pushed the substance through her lips and smeared the slurping sap over her breasts and flat belly. Dark and creamy, temptation overwhelmed, losing control his long pink tongue licked her clean of its dark sweetness. She moaned, wiggling until she collapsed against the moss. Man attracted to the laughter, came running. What had excited Woman so? He found her wrestling with Snake under the forbidden tree. He thought not, instead, joined them playfully, twisting and turning, the three entwining as one. Snake moved, so Man's muscular body met with the weaker Woman's. He innocently watched His children play. Woman landed on top of Man, her shapely legs clamped to his sides, feeding him the bark fruit. She licked him from where the dribbled seeped as Snake did her. "The fruit from the forbidden tree, we did not die," she smiled down at him. The creamy sweetness they devoured down their virtuous throats enjoying every taste of it. Their tussling led to Man's yearning and finding the invasive entrance in the Woman's body. Locking together, she screamed out in 14/The Garden forbidden pleasure as he broke through into her. Man slammed her into her innocence until he became exhausted. Snake, the cherub, had not experienced sexual organisms like Man to Woman. Lying next to them, watching curiously as they explored each other bodies, wonders of pleasure ignited. Yet, he felt little. They looked around the garden as if seeing it for the first time. Realized they were confined...naked. Snake only imagined the understandings growing between them. He rubbed the Woman's back to be a part of their amazing act. Woman ignored him concentrating on Man. Where is Lu? Did he know of this? "Lu!" he called. "Lu, where are you?" Will Lu give him what man has? He rises from the ground, running off, leaving them alone. He had to find Lu. "Woman, you bleed between your thighs," he cried, frightened. "Yes," she tasted the blood, wiped some against Man's lips. "Woman," he moaned. "We did not die. I cannot describe what I feel released by the forbidden fruit. Let us get leaves and cover our nakedness before He wanders through the garden." "I shall wash away the blood in the silver stream," she left Man, keeled in the warm waters. Innocence lost, sinless thoughts contributed to her care of all that lived peacefully in His garden. Woman callously bit the wet, shimmering flesh of the tender fish jumping in her hands. Chewed it thoroughly, swallowed, and threw away its crushed skeleton. 15/The Garden Man joined her at the pool of refreshing waters, holding leaves, "Will you fashion them into coverings?" He asked her. Sitting on the brim of the stream pulling veins from the clover, pushed holes through the leaves, connecting them together, made a bottom for Man, and fashioned more for her breast and lower half. With a twisted vine, tied them around their naked bodies. "Good, He will not see our nakedness." Woman rested her full-haired hair upon his smooth chest, they both slept in peaceful harmony while the high sun lowered. Snake wandered the garden desperately searching for Lu who was not to be found. Wily Willow joined him. "You want to play?" He asked Snake. "Not now...must find Lu. He promised to take me from here and give me half of his kingdom if I did him one." "You listened to Lu? Bad...bad. He shall not approve. Lu is forbidden in the garden. I am going to eat walnuts and pine," he ran from Snake. Snake crawled to the base of the kapok and curved on the buttress roots to nap. He felt so very tired, despondent. Where was Lu? Night came upon them, the intermixing sounds of nature quieted for sleeping. Animals cuddled in their special spots, birds tucked their heads under a single wing, insects scurried across the surface, and monkey tried staying awake to tell Him what has occurred. When the darkness of night gave away to a surprisingly light, thunderous sounds bellowed, awakened Man and Woman. He, who is forever, comes! Appearing in brilliant tones of holy light, radiating in sparking rays, image unseen. Not a figure of a solid man, but flagrantly flashing brightness. Carouse of lights overturning into itself, 16/The Garden penetration darkness turning into an aura of electrical sparks. Brighter than sunlight awakening night. "Man, where are you. Why do you hide?" The man and woman heard trebling sounds vibrating softly from the light. Father soothing his babies gently. "We didn't want you to see our nakedness," Man cowling with Woman behind the sycamore brush. Booming sounds came from the light, and crackling of intensity, "Who told you of your nakedness? You ate of the tree!" "The Woman ate from the tree. She gave me some," Man trembled. Lightning flashed, thunder roar, a concerto of explosive voices sparkling in a harsh rainbow of amazing colors, lights jerked with every expressive tone. He was angry. "You, Man, disobey me!" "The woman...," he attempted to pass the blame from himself to Woman cowering behind him. "Snake led me to the tree, and said the fruit would not make me die," she cringed, fearful of His furious wrath. Shocking flashing flairs flashed from the simpering light. "She was for you, Man. Yet, you followed the misdeeds of Woman, you who had dominance over her and every creature in my garden. You, the stronger, bend to the will of Woman. I smell body juices!" The flashing tones bellowed. "The Woman bled," Man quickly explained. 17/The Garden "Innocence lost!" The light flashed. "The fruit gave me urges, made me hunger to get between Woman's thighs. I am sorry, Father," he cringed. "So am I," the light bellowed, echoing thunder followed. Snake awakened with a growing heat creeping over his muscular form while sleeping. He breathed in a scared intake, "Master?" Not even Lu could save him from His wrath. Before he had a chance to run, he stood before the terrible light. Waiting to be torched by Him. Snake tried speaking, what was an acceptable excuse? Words froze in his vocal cords before they escaped his lips. None, other than Lu, capable of releasing him from horrid trepidation. "For your participation in causing sin to erupt in my garden, your legs and arms shall be no more, and you shall forever slither on your belly in the muck of lands." As he spoke these cursed words, Snake limps dissolved. His once sturdy body became an oblong, lose vertebrate being covered with scaly skin, stripped of his former self, twisted to propel himself. Condemned to crawl, limbless unable to stand tall and walk, His punishment was much too severe. "Woman shall smash your head beneath her feet, eat your flesh for food, and wear your skin as garments. Every generation of her children shall do the same. Retribution for your sinful act of greed and longing," flashed the light. A forceful light expelled him from His presence onto barren land. Snake's long tongue slithered, searching for Lu. Words impossible to expel from within his thin-lined lips, long fangs perturbed. Where was Lu? Surely Lu shall help him... 18/The Garden "Woman!" He who is forever chastised her next, "You disobeyed me, led Man astray. As Man hungers for your body, you shall forever lust for his touch. Forever seeking lonely fulfillment, nothing quenching the yearning thirst enthralled by Man. Your thoughtlessness took a helpless life incapable of protecting itself; therefore, despair shall never leave your heart. Severe pain shall rake your body giving birth to earth's children, instead of the tender signals announcing births. Your struggles shall be greatly inflicted by Man, who you led into lust until you find a way to redeem yourself." The Woman did not respond, instead attempted to come closer to the light, warm herself before sizzling cracking. Her body became instantly chilled. Twirling sounds of gusting winds as though being forced through a hollow tube rushed upon them. Swishing sounds of tickling breezes touched Man and Woman, other than that, silent was the garden, they stood before the crashing light. "Man has learned of good and evil...wants...desires. Innocent no more, death must decent upon Man and his conniving mate." "Man can be redeemed? He is not so like Lu," the Lord argued. "Vanity did not trip Man. Disobedience did. Move them from the garden, before Man taste of the eternal fruit of life. Man can change...repent. Lu never shall... His evil contributed to innocence lost." "Very well, death shall not extend forever. Forgiveness shall descend upon them when they have learned, asked to be forgiven for sins committed. Opportunities shall be before Man left to redeem self, although Lu is loose on the lowly earth, always about to embroiled strife, they shall have the sense to resist his luscious temptation," The light simpered. 19/The Garden His thunderous bellows, flashing light, sentenced Man. "You shall no longer live harmoniously, forced to toil with the soils and elements surging against your endeavors to survive. You shall seek fulfillment that shall never come, lose appreciation for life that I have created. Cursed to struggle continuously against yourself and warring always with your brethren. Though always lusting for Woman, your hibernating anger at her enticement shall keep you fearful of what else Woman is capable of tricking you to commit. The dread of control by Woman shall keep you oppressing her. Your reprieve shall be caring for Woman, children she bears and my most precious earth. This shall be your final punishment until the end of time. "Forgive me," Man pleaded, cowering before the light, his face buried in the soft grass. The Woman laid protectively across his bowed body. "Go...Go, get from this garden. Your sin shall no longer anger me," He, who is forever, roared in angry flashing, thunderous sounds like crashing of massive oceans waters pounding against non-giving shores induced ultimate fear into Man and Woman. Leaning on Woman, Man was forced out of great illuminance gates. Giant keeper lorded over all that had been. Oh, African no more peaceful home developed from God's magnitude. Man, Woman wept as they stumble into an ostracized existence warning of a desolate future. All that was before disappeared. The End