SAT scores are down across the nation. They are dumbing us down at a rapid pace. I call it over social media population. No offense to Facebook, but we would rather be on Facebook than have books in our faces. A.D.D. is at an all-time high; dropouts are rising at a rapid rate. We have replaced parenting with Xbox, iPad, iPhones and electronics. Its ironic how we've replaced hooked on phonics with social media Ebonics. LOL, SMH, TTYL, # all made iconic By a billion twitter fingers forming a relationship that's symbiotic. Every day, you see a post or tweet that tugs at your heart. It is kind of hard to decipher the real from those seeking to be social media stars. I'm guilty of it, too; it dawned upon me the other day. I was walking and sending a tweet. I walked past three people, and I didn't even bother to speak. I got annoyed by the same bum holding a sign: "I'm just trying to eat." I had a pocket full of money and still in my pocket I didn't reach. I looked the other way and hurried to cross the street. I felt a big shove from the back and went flying as I heard a piercing screech. The very "bum" I had avoided had just risked his life to save me! I stood there dumbfounded at a loss for speech. I watched his body lie motionless on the hot Florida concrete. I ran to his aid and, just before I reached, like a gazelle, he sprung to his feet, Grabbed my shoulders, and Italian mob kissed both my cheeks, Whispering in my ears...."My son, you never know when it's me." He whispered "My son you never know when it's me." That's when it all hit me like a bag of bricks; everything clicked, a message divinely sent. Spend less time on social media, and more time bettering our social environment. We repost and retweet overseas calamities, animal cruelty, conspiracies, and sabotage, Even send money to kids in Africa; we are quick to create causes for other countries who've got it hard. Yet, turn up our noise to those starving in our own country, our own backyards. We are turning into an idle nation so disconnected that it's noteworthy! The sad truth is that most of us would rather tweet than go out and get our hands dirty!