Once upon a time there lived in Honolulu, Hawai'i a kind old man and his wife. The old man was a woodcarver. He and his wife were very sad and lonely because they had no children. One day the old man went to Manoa village to cut firewood, and the old woman went to the stream to wash clothes. No sooner had the old woman begun her washing than she was very surprised to see a gigantic pineapple floating down the stream. It was the biggest pineapple she'd ever seen in all her life. She pulled the *pineapple* out of the Manoa Stream and decided to take it home and share it with the old man for their dinner that night. Late in the afternoon the old man came home, and the old woman said to him, "Look what a wonderful pineapple i've found for our dinner." The old man said it was truly a beautiful pineapple. He was very hungry and said, "Let's divide it and eat it right away." So the old woman brought a big knife from the kitchen and got ready to cut the pineapple in half. But just then a human voice called out from inside the pineapple Y . "Wait! Don't cut me," cried the voice. Suddenly the pineapple split open, and a beautiful baby boy jumped out of the Y . The old man and woman were astounded. But the baby said, "Don't be afraid, The God of Heaven saw how lonely you were without any children, so he sent me to be your son." The old man and woman were very happy, and they took the baby to be their son. Since he was born from a pineapple, they named him, PineapplRU, which means *Pineapple Boy.* They loved PineapplRU very much and raised him to be a fine boy. When PineapplRU was seventeen years old, he said to his Father and mother, "You have always been very kind to me. Now I am grown and i must do something to help our land. In a distant part of the sea is an island named Alcatraz Island. Many wicked mutants live there, and they often come here and do bad things like carrying people away and stealing our favorite things. So I'm going to go to Alcatraz Island to fight them and bring back the Menehune treasures, and the old, secret-recipe scrolls that they've stolen. Please let me do this this!" PinapplRU's father and mother were surprised to hear this, but they were also very proud of PineapplRU for wanting to help other people. So they helped PineapplRU get ready for his journey to Alcatraz Island. The old man gave him a sword and some armor, and the old woman fixed him a hearty lunch of miniature, Roasted Kamuela ? Tomato Quiches, a long-lost, [and an almost forgotten] re-discovered favorite recipe from the little town's best kept secret - -a chef who was known for making people smile with his hApPy quiches! Then PinapplRU began his journey, promising his parents that he would be home soon. PineapplRU went walking toward the sea. It was a long way. As he went along, he met a shepherd dog. The dog growled at PineapplRU and was about to bite him, but then PineapplRU gave him a miniature, happy quiche. He told the shepherd dog that he was going to fight the mutants on Alcatraz Island. So the shepherd dog said he would go along, too, to help PineapplRU. PineapplRU and the shepherd dog kept on walking and soon they met a monkey. The shepherd dog and the monkey started to have a fight. But PineapplRU told the monkey that they were going to fight the mutants on Alcatraz Island. Then the monkey asked if he could go with them. So PineapplRU gave the monkey a hApPy quiche and let him join them. PineapplRU, the shepherd dog and the monkey kept on walking and soon they met an owl. The shepherd dog, the monkey R and the owl were about to start jousting when PineapplRU told the owl they were going to fight the mutants on Alcatraz Island. The owl asked if he could go too. So PineapplRU gave the owl a hApPy quiche and told him to come along with them. So, with PinapplRU as their leader, the shepherd dog, the monkey, and the owl who usually disliked each other, became good and faithful friends. They walked a long, long way, and finally reached the sea. There they built a boat and sailed across the sea to Alcatraz Island. When they came with in sight of the island, they could see that the mutants had a very strong fort there. And there were many, many mutants! Some of them were red, some were blue, and some were green. First, the owl flew over the walls of the fort and began to peck at the mutants' heads. The mutants tried to hit the owl with their clubs, but he was wise and very quick to dodge their blows. While the mutants weren't looking, the monkey slipped into the fort and opened the gate. Then PineapplRU and the shepherd dog rushed into the fort. It was a terribly fierce battle. The owl pecked at the heads of the wickedly mean mutants, the monkey clawed at them with his nails, the shepherd dog bit them with his teeth, and PineapplRU cut them with his sword. At last the mutants were completely defeated. They bowed down before PineapplRU and promised never to do wicked things again. Then they brought PineapplRU all the Menehune treasures they had stolen. It was the most exceptional treasure you can imagine. There was gold, silver and the treasure of old-recipes from the Menehune lineage! PinapplRU and his three friends carried all of this back in their boat. Then they put the treasure in a cart and traveled through out the mountainous and sacred land, returning to the people of Manoa village [in Honolulu] all the Menehune treasure and secret-recipes that the mutants had stolen. Finally PinapplRU returned to his own home. How happy his father, and mother were to see him! They were even more rich now with the remaining treasure, the [almost lost], secret-recipe scrolls, and specially the re-discovered hApPy quiche recipe from the village's favorite chef that PinapplRU had brought back, and they all lived together very, very happily.