"I want to go visit Grandma," said Little Red Riding Hood. "Mother, may I?" "You bet your bippy," said her mother. "And you can take her this basket of goodies so she can have her cake and eat it too." Little Red Riding Hood put on her cape, picked up the basket, and skipped off merrily singing "over the river and through the woods to Grandmother's house we go." Soon she met a flock of sheep wandering in circles. They said, "We've lost Bo Peep and we're hungry." Little Red Riding Hood pointed to a hill and said, "Keep going. The grass is always greener on the other side of the hill." Then she added, "I'm off to my Grandma's house. Meet me there after your lunch. Gotta run! Time flies." As she skipped off, she flung over her shoulder, "Beware of any wolf in sheep's clothing." On her way she met three little kittens who'd lost their mittens and were crying. Red Riding Hood stopped and told them, "Don't cry over spilt milk. Come to Grandma's house with me and when the sheep get there, she will knit you new ones. A stitch in time saves nine." So she pocketed the kittens and continued on the path. Next, they met a dark horse, a horse of a different color. He said he too was lost because the farmer had locked the barn door after the horse had bolted. Little Red Riding Hood invited him to join them, saying "Make hay while the sun shines." The horse replied, "Wild horses couldn't keep me away!" Then Red Riding Hood smiled sweetly and said, "If wishes were horses, then beggars could ride." The horse replied, "Let's not horse around. I know I'm a high horse, but stand on that tree stump and climb up for a ride." Continuing along they met a chicken who was madder than a wet hen and running around like a chicken with its head cut off. She had dropped her basket of eggs and they had all broken. "Don't you know to never put all your eggs in one basket? said the horse. "Yes," said the chicken, "but I forgot when I saw these bugs, which are scarcer than hens' teeth in these parts." So the chicken calmed down and agreed to join them on their journey. As they neared Grandma's house, they met a sacred cow. "How now, brown cow", said Little Red Riding Hood. The cow responded, "I'm so hungry I could eat a horse." The horse said, "I'm so hungry I could eat the north end of a south bound cow!" Little Red Riding Hood said, "There, there. Eat your words. We'll be at Grandma's house soon, and we can eat till our hearts' content. Let's go. Time is of the essence." 2 THE ADVENTURES OF LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD Next, they came across a pig in a poke. The pig said, "I'm hungry." Everyone chimed in, "You can't be. You're as fat as a pig!" The pig answered, "I know. I need to diet so I can learn to fly. The cow said, "If ifs and buts were candy and nuts, every day would be Christmas." And the horse added, "Even a blind pig finds an acorn once in a while. Keep searching." So Little Red Riding Hood and her band of renegades left the pig behind, happy as a pig in mud. By now the sheep had eaten their fill of green grass and joined Little Red Riding Hood at Grandma's house. When Grandma opened the door and saw her granddaughter with the basket of goodies and all her friends, she welcomed them with open arms, "You nearly knocked my socks off! Time to put the kettle on. There's hay in the barn for the cow and horse, grass in the pasture for the sheep, corn for the chicken, and a saucer of milk for the kittens---I'll start knitting them mittens when all is said and done. It's all in a day's work." Grandma suggested to Little Red Riding Hood, "Now that we have a farmyard full of animals, perhaps your mother can move in here, and we can all live happily ever after, come hell or high water."