We were not people anymore. I knew not how it happened, but I knew the world was changing. They could not care about us any less. To them our lives were meaningless. They promised us relief from our suffering. There would never be any, I was certain. They went on forever, the lines of people. Millions of marks: worthless. I felt that I would never again have a loaf of bread. I knew I had no home anymore, but I desperately wanted to go home. All I could think was: how can I stop this? I needed help. And there they were. With arms saluting, they marched around: ordinary people. No longer frauds, phoneys, liars were our leaders. These people truly cared about us. I knew none of them would bring more pain. Surely they would end our suffering. As they gained more and more power, I knew no one would live in hardship for much longer. Certainly we could rise up. We were strong. If only we all would support the cause. They claimed I was just a person no more, I was a German. The Jews were Germany's enemy. I had to accept it, but how could it be so? Someone would explain to me: if only Germany no longer had the Jews, they claimed, Germany could be glorious. I insisted it wasn't true. They had bankrupted us, my brother had to sell his store, I had to move in with my sister. I knew it had happened, but how could these ordinary people, my friends, really want to hurt us? Had it all just been a pretext while deep inside they were monsters? My neighbor, she was so sweet and kind. When I did not have enough money to buy it myself, my neighbor, she had given me flour. Had they all just been liars? Could it be correct? I wondered. More and more people joined the party. As life for Jews became harder, persecution increased, my country was a catastrophe no more; Germany flourished. As time went on, I realized at some point it was true. Right is, what is good for the German people. I knew who I was. I accepted the responsibility. A German, A patriot.: I held up the flag high, and I fought for Germany throughout the whole war. Part 2: I Used to Know Who I Was I fought for Germany throughout the whole war, and I held up the flag high: A patriot, A German. I accepted the responsibility. I knew who I was. For the German people, right is what is good. It was true, at some point. I realized as time went on, Germany flourished no more. My country was a catastrophe. Persecution increased. Life for Jews became harder. "For Aryans Only" As more and more people joined the party, I wondered, could it be correct? Had they all just been liars? My neighbor, she had given me flour when I did not have enough money to buy it myself. My neighbor, she was so sweet and kind. Had it all just been a pretext while deep inside they were monsters? How could these ordinary people, my friends, really want to hurt us? But I knew it had happened. I had to move in with my sister, my brother had to sell his store, they had bankrupted us. It wasn't true, I insisted Germany could be glorious. They claimed the Jews no longer had Germany. If only someone would explain to me how could it be so? But I had to accept it. The Jews were Germany's enemy. I was a German no more. I was just a person. "Jews here in Hildesheim unwanted." They claimed all would support the cause. If only we were strong, we could rise up. Certainly we would live in hardship for much longer. As they gained more and more power, I knew no one would end our suffering. Surely they would bring more pain. I knew none of them truly cared about us. These people were our leaders: frauds, phoneys, liars, no longer ordinary people. They marched around with arms saluting, and there they were. I needed help. How can I stop this? All I could think was: I desperately wanted to go home, but I had no home anymore. I knew that I would never again have a loaf of bread. I felt worthless. Millions of marks, the lines of people; they went on forever. I was certain there would never be any relief from our suffering. They promised us our lives were meaningless to them. They could not care about us any less. The world was changing, but I knew not how it happened. I knew we were not people anymore.