The poetry of, Federico Garcia Lorca was first read aloud to me by my headmaster in the last term of my secondary school career. The lure of the Andalusian countryside described within the lines of poetry, never seemed to stray too far from my childish mind. To my disappointment however; my Father had me enrolled into law school merely days after my examination results were revealed. "A man who has no career, has no business calling himself a man at all." was, amongst other things what he had told me in his study the morning I left home. He had made the decision not to look at me in our final moments together. Instead he spoke with a copy of The Times held firmly in front of him which obscured everything on the bottom half of his face, leaving only his neat moustache and tightly side parted hair visible. After he had finished his speech on the life-long benefits which one can only hope to achieve through a successful career in law, he roughly shook the crusty newspaper and summoned his driver. The driver struggled to manoeuvre my heavy trunk into the boot of his car, and had to readjust his hat so that it returned to the centre of his head once the task had been completed. I took my place on the back seat of the car, and scanned the windows of my childhood home for any signs of my Mother. My Father had forbidden me to speak to her before I left, so I had hope a mere goodbye wave would suffice. I did not see her that morning, or any morning since for that matter. The car started to ease forward, and we began our journey to my new home in Islington, where I would be living with my Mothers elder brother. ~2~ I am currently one year away from becoming a fully qualified criminal defence solicitor, although I must confess that the joys of employment are surely wasted on me. One day I had just returned from a particularly stressful day observing a difficult court proceeding, when Uncle Montgomery, pointed something out to me in the newspaper that he'd been reading. There was an advertisement for English speaking individuals to volunteer as English language teachers in schools which were run by Catholic missionaries. And this particular missionary school, Uncle Monty told me with a grin happened to be in rural Spain. I couldn't quite believe my eyes. I sent a letter to my Father asking for his permission, with my assurances that I would go while on a break from my Solicitor training. To my surprise, his reply not only granted me with the permission I desired, he also pledged to cover all of my travel expenditures. * I am currently sat at a small, round wicker table. It is breakfast time at the hotel, and it is eight thirty in the morning. The breakfast area is located in the central, square-shaped courtyard of the hotel. The floor of the courtyard is covered in the chiselled tiles of a blue and white Islamic mosaic, and the courtyard itself is flanked by large marble columns, which hold up the wooden balconies that overlook the breakfast area. The courtyard is open to the elements, and the only thing protecting me from being ravaged by the Spanish sun is the small beige umbrella which casts a welcome shadow over my head. Every morning the hotel staff lay out a breakfast buffet on a long table, which is covered in a red and white diamond patterned blanket. The breakfast, which I had never before experienced, consists of a selection of cold meats, hard boiled eggs, odd smelling cheese, a variety of peculiar shaped pastries, and freshly squeezed orange juice or tea or coffee. On my ~3~ plate this particular morning rests one egg, three slices of cold meat, cheese which is dotted with holes, and beside it a cup of freshly ground black coffee. The hotel was recommended to me by some of the missionaries at the Catholic school. It is a modest bed and breakfast style establishment which is run by a stern looking woman whose hair is just on the verge of beginning to turn grey, and her three young daughters. I must say that I have not a complaint in the world, and although I am used to a far higher standard of accommodation, this particular hotel suits me just fine. The hotel is located near Monasterio Santa Isabel la Real, which is a convent. Some mornings I take my breakfast by the side of the cobbled street and watch the nuns silently drift through the large stone archway, which is adorned with a statue of the Virgin Mary. Sometimes I happen to make eye contact with some of the nuns and I'll say, "Good morning" to them and smile. They smile back at me from under their hooded black robes, and quickly flick their sullen eyes down towards the uneven stone ground. The hotel staff cannot be more helpful either. I speak no Spanish and they speak very little English, but they could not be more accommodating. Just this morning I stopped one of the daughters as she passed by my table. She knelt down close to my face; while I inquired as to if there was any way to shield myself from the morning sun. She was wearing a long sleeved black dress with a collar not unlike a priest's around the neck, and her deep brown eyes remained fixed to mine whilst I tried my upmost to mime the word umbrella. "Ah, si Senor", she said finally, and an umbrella was brought promptly, and it now rests in the hole at the centre of my table. ~4~ I am eating breakfast at this ungodly hour because today is Saturday, one of my only days off from teaching. I was told by one of the missionaries that I simply cannot leave Spain until I have seen every cathedral in Granada, as they are the most beautiful in all the world. I require an early start this particular morning, as I have managed to acquire some rather unwanted attention. I soon discovered that the travelling American possess a distinct knack for sniffing out any nearby Englishmen. I believe they find us endearing and impossibly fascinating, God only knows why. I bumped into this particular gaggle of Yanks on my way back from a long day spent marking exercise books. As I approached the entrance to the hotel I could hear the unmistakeably sound of generic drunken revelling, and to my horror quickly realised the drunken shouts were not in Spanish like I had hoped, but in my own mother tongue. "Hey, sorry about the noise, Buddy", crooned one of the handsome American men from under his felt hat, which matched his tan suit. "Oh that's quite alright, my friend, no harm done", I replied with a polite smile as I tried to slip by their table and into the front door of the hotel. "Hey, Sammy", replied the second American man, who was stood up smoking, "if I didn't know any better, I'd say we'd found ourselves a limey". "...that true? You British?" said the man in the felt hat, whose name I deduced was probably Sammy. "Yes I believe so, well, at least since last I checked..." "Oh yeah, he's a Brit alright." said the man smoking man. He did not have on a suit jacket, but instead wore beige trousers, with a white button up shirt which had three too many ~5~ buttons undone. His hair was parted sideways with lots of grease, and he was wearing hornrimmed sunglasses. I would later learn that this man's name was Frankie. "Well whadda' ya say, English", inquired Sammy, "how's about joining us for a drink?" And that is how it went from then on. Every morning we would have breakfast together. Every night we would have dinner and drink copious amounts of alcohol together. Every moment I did not spent teaching, I would spend with them. I learnt that they were all from the state of New York, and that they were college students at Princeton University, and like myself, Frankie and Sammy had been sent to study law by their wealthy Fathers. Two of the girls, Lisa and Betty were studying literature, and the third was studying the history of art. They had managed to escape to Europe during their summer holidays by convincing their parents that they had not allowed them enough time to be young. According to Frankie, one of the girls, Father's had even made arrangements for her to be married. I had almost finished peeling off the remnants of shell from my hardboiled egg, when I looked up to see that Frankie and Sammy had just entered the courtyard. With any luck I would remain hidden, and then slip away undetected. Unfortunately I was betrayed by the very daughter who had assisted me with the umbrella this morning. I saw her greet Frankie and Sammy, proceed to point towards my table and shout for more chairs to be fetched right away. Sammy let out a large exhale as he sat. They both flashed me a pearlescent tooth filled grin, Frankie winked, and they tucked into their cold meats and cheese. ~6~ "I see you're trying to get the jump on us, Jacob", Sammy said through a mouth full of food. "It's not that I don't enjoy the company", I stuttered, "It's just that I've got to get at least some cultural appreciation done before I am to return to England." "Ah don't sweat it Jake", added Frankie, "you know he's only messing". I noticed that a member of the hotel staff had placed an unneeded chair by our table, then replied, "I spend most of my time with the children, you see..." "Christ, you and those damn kids. I swear you Brits get a kick out of making us look bad", said Frankie. "We're a bunch of no good, drunken degenerates, and how does Ol' Jake spend his days in paradise?" "Teaching street kids to speak, without asking for a cent in return", Sammy replied after a slurp of coffee. "It's really no bother you know..." I began to reply until I was distracted by the sight of a young woman entering the courtyard. I soon realised that it was Jessie, one of Sammy and Frankie's female friends. Although I was perfectly civil with the female members of my group of Americans, I was definitely more comfortable in the company of the other men. My childhood spent in various boarding schools had made sure of that. And to say that I had in fact done my upmost to actively avoid Jessie, would be correct. Every time I saw her I had the most peculiar sensation in the recesses of my stomach, one that I could not quite explain. It was like the feeling of falling within a dream, moments before being woken up. There was something about her that intrigued me. The way she dressed herself always reminded me of a photograph I had once seen in a glossy magazine, of a glamourous woman draped limply on a chair in a Paris cafe. This morning she wore a flowing, narrow dress, which hung from the straps around her shoulders all the way down to just above her ankles. The dress was covered in multi-coloured vertical stripes, and on her feet she wore red shoes which had a slight heel ~7~ at the back, which were fastened by two thin straps around her ankle and just behind her toes. And as she lowered herself into the empty seat at our table she looked to me at least, quite beautiful. "Good morning, gentleman". "Good old, Jakey here was trying to give us the slip". "Is that so?" Jessie said, turning her head towards mine, "And why would you dream of doing a thing like that Jacob?" "I simply haven't had much time to do any real sight-seeing you see..." "We enjoy sight-seeing, we're Ivy-League. Remember?" "Yes", I chuckled, "I suppose you are." "...Planning on seeing anything in particular?" inquired Jessie, as she balanced her chin on a closed fist. "Well I was told that the cathedrals in Granada are simply unmissable". "How about that one just around the block?" "Well, you see now that is a Convent actually". "...." "...It's where the nuns stay". "Well whoever lives there, I would sure love to see what's on the inside. So why don't you accompany me?" ~8~ "Well I can think of no reason why not", I replied. "Well that settles it; wait a moment, Jacob while I fetch my hat will you? Boys? Will you be joining us?" "No way", said Frankie, shaking his head and waving one hand, "we had a few too many Pernots last night, and I am in serious need of a lie down. You two go on, we'll catch up to you later". "Suit yourself" Jessie said as she arose from her chair, "I won't be a moment Jake". * As the sun was fearsome this morning, I decided we should walk on the shaded side of the pavement. Resting on top of Jessie's head is a large, floppy straw hat. The pavement is very narrow so Jessie has to walk on the road beside me, and I have to look down ever so slightly whenever I speak to her. The sound of excited screams grow louder, as a gang of scruffy looking children pass by us on the road. They are chasing a scraggly looking black and white cat, and they disappear into the distance, laughing maniacally. Just as we are coming up to the stone archway that leads to the convent, I spy a cafe which I had previously assumed was abandoned. Sat outside, is a group of elderly men. They are all wearing short sleeve button up shirts that do nothing to hide their large, round stomachs. They are all playing Backgammon, and talking loudly in Spanish, with many hand gestures. Most of the men have cigarettes either in-between the centre fingers of their hands or hanging out of their mouths, and the area in which they are sat is submerged in yellow sunlight. The convent itself is a long, white-washed building, with an imposing tower at the far end. The roof of both the tower and the main structure is covered in terracotta tiles. I carefully ~9~ push open the heavy and ornate wooden door, and am immediately struck by the coldness of the building. Stood near the entrance is a nun thumbing a rosary necklace. The muscles on the sides of her face tighten when Jessie follows me through the door. I take off my suit jacket and drape it over her shoulders. "And for God sakes", I whisper, "take the bloody hat off". We spend some time drifting around the building, taking in the Renaissance artwork and viewing the various stone carvings of long dead saints. We find ourselves sat on a flimsy wooden pew. There are four rows on either side, and there are only three other people in the cavernous chamber with us. They are sat in the left hand pews. They are each sat on a separate row and their heads are bowed. High above us in the centre of the room is a stained glass window depicting the moment that the Virgin Mary tends to Christ while he is on the cross. The sun shining through the stained glass, peppers the concrete ground with various shapes of many different colours. Below the stained glass window there is a slightly raised platform. On top of the platform stands a wooden lectern, which is covered in decorative carvings. Jessie and I are sat beside each other, and speak only in whispers. "So tell me, Jake, you believe in any of this stuff?" Jessie asks. "Out of all the days I spent at Sunday school, I have but only one memory". "Which is?" "Staring out of the window at a large weeping willow, wishing I could have been anywhere else". "And what about the other stuff?" "I'm not sure I follow..." ~ 10 ~ "You know", said Jessie as her eyes darted quickly from one side of the chamber to the other, "the occult". "The occult? Christ, Jessie, I..." "No, No. Not all that stuff. I'm talking Tarot cards, star signs...crystal balls." "Oh yes, I know all about that". "Well what do you call it back home in, England?" "Mumbo-Jumbo". "Very funny, Jake". "You aren't honestly suggesting..." "Well why not? Who gets to decide that all this is right", Jessie said as she threw her arms in the air, "and everything else is just, wrong?" The nun who had been stood at the door is now walking down the centre of the pews. She is still thumbing her rosary, and as she floats past us I can hear her muttering in Spanish. Jessie's voice becomes even softer than a whisper. "I went to the camp yesterday. By myself". "The Romani camp? Oh I had been meaning to ask about that, I must see it before I leave". "It was beautiful, Jake. They were beautiful. Free, you know?" "Most of them weren't even wearing shoes". "Well I'm not quite sure what being bare-footed has to do with..." ~ 11 ~ "I saw this caravan, made out of wood. It was painted in every colour you could imagine. A woman appeared, said she would read my palm. She was gorgeous. Dark twisted hair, red frilly skirt, exposed shoulders". "I see. And the reading?" "The what?" "Your fortune, what did she say?" "Oh, that I would be financially successful. And have three handsome sons". "Well that sounds rather good to me". "And that I would spend the rest of my life happily married..." "Even better". "...to a foreigner, from a faraway land". "And your betrothed. I take it he's..." "...From Brooklyn". "Ah. My point exactly. These people are little more than cheap tricksters." Jessie turns her face away from mine and stares towards the stained glass at the front of the building. She has been whispering for so long that her voice has become slightly hoarse. "I've never even met the guy. Not even a picture". "Well, if it's any consolation, your Father's only trying to do what's best." I reply, gazing back at a profile shot. "My Father made sure to tell me what he does living though. He's a lawyer. Like you, Jake". "I'm a Solicitor. And not yet a fully-fledged one at that". ~ 12 ~ "Let me guess, infidelity is one of the deadly ones?" "I'm afraid so. One of the worst, actually." "Well, if he is real, at least he's got a sense of humour". On the walk back to the hotel the sun had long since moved on, and both sides of the street were now engulfed in shadow. The cafe across the street was closed, and the old men were nowhere to be seen. Jessie and I walked along the cobblestones, our clicking footsteps being the only ones brave enough to engage in conversation. We arrived at the hotel, and climbed the stairs. I walked with Jessie to her hotel room and she twisted the key in the door and went it. She turned and began to close the door. She stopped just before the door shut, and we looked at each other through the small crack. "Oh Jake", sighed Jessie, "...in another lifetime perhaps?" and she slammed her door shut. I walked along the corridor and rounded the corner towards my room. I let myself in with my key, and sat on the end of the bed. ~ 13 ~ ~ 14 ~