It's not easy to pigeonhole a life of some forty years into cardboard boxes and have them shipped off to Godknowswhere. Every day I go about taking stuff down - pictures from walls, clothes from closets, books from shelves. Often, when the past comes knocking on my door, I tear up like an idiot, and that tidy little secret, buried deep inside the unspoken memories of this house, comes romping to the surface. I catch my breath and sit awhile, nursing that morsel of knowledge until my heart quietens, and I am able to move on to the next wall or closet or shelf. Through the mist in my eyes, the boxes appear blurred and unreal, pudgy clouds that never drift away; they only bring a shower to my eyes. I wipe my tears and the magnolia tree outside brightens. The faint hum of an aeroplane floats in the air and I wonder if it were a seven-fortyseven like the one that brought me to Toronto, all those years ago. A smiling Mrs Dutt, Shuvo's Bengali co-worker at the hospital, had been waiting to welcome Shuvo and me home, the new bride and groom. From a silver plate, she raised a piece of homemade sweetmeat to my lips and then some tepid milk from a crystal shot glass. Her daughter, Ina, blew into a conch shell and its auspicious bass, marked by Mrs Dutt's high-pitched ululation, sliced the frigid air into two neat halves. Mrs Dutt threw a handful of rice over our heads signalling to Shuvo who swept me up in his arms and carried me over the threshold as if it were no less the ocean we had just crossed. No, day-dreaming won't do. I have to get things done before I forget them. Forgetting is my new enemy. I needed to take down the stacks of plates, serving bowls, platters, dishes, from a chestnut cabinet, all languishing unused since Shuvo died a year ago. I jimmied open the door of the cabinet. Instantly, the startled air from inside escaped in a wispy plume of dust. Like a spirit leaving a body. The smell was stale, musty like a bad dream. Of course, Shuvo had no right to die and leave me alone. But who cared anymore about what is right and what is wrong? In the end, we each go our own way into the thickets of eternity, alone and empty-handed. I taped the box and stepping outside, sat on the front steps where we had sat for a lifetime of a marriage, our dreams blooming like stars in a darkening sky. We listened to their silent soiree and made the most momentous plans of our lives; the parties we threw, the vacations we took, the cars we bought. Our son's future. I am seventy-one, not old. If seventy-one is old then what is eighty-three or ninety-four? Until a few months ago I jogged around Silverhill Park three times a week, my iPod in my ear, listening to old Bengali songs. I probably would have jogged here for the rest of my life if one day I hadn't forgotten to stop jogging and return home. I wandered around, confused, the side streets familiar yet not so. In the gathering twilight, a police cruiser stopped and the policeman at the wheel asked if I needed help. I said everything was alright. He did not believe me. He got out and stood rooted like the blue spruce next to him and asked my name, his words clipped as if he were dicing potatoes with his tongue. "Binita Roy," I replied. Leaving Behind 3 "Age?" "Sixty-nine." Good sign! I still remembered to lie about my age. "Address?" That's where he got me. I thought of flowers over an arbour but nothing else would come to me. I fumbled in my belt bag and retrieved my phone. The policeman took it from me and called the last number. It was my son, Jay's. There is something inglorious about a mother coming to her son's in a police car. Jay and Rina were waiting for me on their porch, all the lights in their house turned on as if it were Christmas. That night I saw in advance the expressions Jay and Rina would wear at my funeral. They wouldn't let me return home that night, although by then I remembered my address and wanted to call that nice policeman and give it to him. The next day, after Jay dropped me home, I picked up the reins of my life as if nothing untoward had occurred. Then, I made the terrible mistake of inviting Jay and Rina to dinner. I usually took them out to a fancy place where I couldn't go alone anymore because it seemed the waiters gave me strange stares and took an awfully long time to serve me making me feel lonelier than ever. This time, I wanted to cook something special for my children. Rina was setting the table. I swept the pan free of all the vegetables I had just sauteed into a serving dish and, instead of snapping the oven off, I blew into the gas flame as if it were a candle. The red On/Off markings on the knobs eyed me expectantly but for the life of me I could not figure out what to do with them. I blew again, harder, and the circle of flickering flames thought it was some sort of game and changed their shape, dancing a Will-o'-the-Wisp dance. Leaving Behind 4 That was it. I had played with fire. Rina made an appointment with my family GP and Dr Pantikhat diagnosed me with early onset of dementia. I argued that I remembered plenty of things from my past, it was only some of the immediate tasks that I was having trouble with. "Classic dementia symptom," he said. "It might be years before your long-term memory is affected." "But it will be, at some point, right?" I said, hoping against hope it won't be. "Yes, but meanwhile try to keep yourself engaged, Mrs Roy. Read, talk to friends, start a hobby. These things could delay it." The kindness in his voice filled me with dismay. While he wrote out some vitamins and chatted with Rina, I dreaded what it would be like when I forgot Shuvo and the secret we shared. Sitting in Dr Pantikhat's chamber, in a band of caramel sunlight, I shivered. Overnight, from a perfectly normal woman, I became an invalid. Jay and Rina asked me to move in with them, which I flatly refused. They insisted. I still refused, politely, with deep care for feelings. Then they started a weekend ritual of taking me around to places where I could retire in comfort with my independence safe in my pocket. The last place, Jay said, was a place that his dad would have liked to see me in. I could furnish it with whatever furniture I chose. There was a kitchenette with no stove; only a microwave. "You could move in here on the first of July." A slight pause like the synapse in an addled brain, then, "if you like." Jay's tone was cautious like feet on soapy floor tiles. "To this place, with an apology for a kitchen, you mean?" I spat out, a fire snarling inside me. Leaving Behind 5 "Ma, you can just rest, you don't need to cook or clean, there is onsite service for all of that." He opened cupboards, twisted on faucets, checked the electric panel. "Ah! Great west-facing window, the evening sun will warm your bed nicely." I hated the setting sun. It reminded me of the evening Shuvo died. Why do sons know so little about their mothers? This son I bore and birthed and brought up. Does he know what my favourite colour is? If I prefer a bath to a shower, an apple to a pear? Yet here he was, wielding the baton, directing my life. Jay smiled tightly at my silence. I couldn't locate my son in that smile. "This will not do," I said. "I need at least two bedrooms." "For?" "In case your uncle visits from Calcutta or a friend drops by and wants to spend the night." His smile wiped itself off his face, his eyes becoming impatient, hostile. But I dug my heels in. My independence is not a cheap thing sold in a roadside kiosk. I won't make it easy for him to wrest it from me. "We'll discuss this later." He started to walk towards the car park. I screamed silently at his taut back; what do you know about being old and alone and heartbroken? I wanted to warn him, prepare him. But then, some things are best learnt on your own. I sat in the car in sullen silence, my mind winging to the time when Jay was just a hum in my belly. My mother's weekly letters from Calcutta had been peppered with things I should do and not do. Do not eat anything sour, the baby will be cranky. Eat an apple every day, the baby will Leaving Behind 6 be fair. No matter what you do, do not eat pineapple, it's a prescription for miscarriage. And the question of paramount importance - in which direction was the feathery line leading down from under the navel bending, right or left? Left for boy, right for girl. I tried to see but it was impossible to peek over the growing mound of my belly and determine its trajectory. In any case, it was no use to me. In my heart, I knew it was a girl. It had to be a girl. I yearned for a girl. "It's a boy!" The pretty nurse handed me an angry, slimy bundle. Jay made his entry into the world, fist in the air, bawling. That was thirty-seven years ago. I got out of the car and, holding my back straight, walked up to my front door. Jay let me in, hung the keys in the foyer, and left. I stood alone in the living room, in the womb of a terrifying silence. I pretended to hold hands with Shuvo and wandered around the house. I sat in the garden under the night sky with a bowl of cubed melon on my lap, spearing the stars with my fork and carrying them to my lips. Memories flashed around me like fireflies. The roll of the garage door signalling Shuvo's return from late-night surgery. I'd take his coat, smooth his hair, get him a drink. And listen. Sundays, when the sweet fuzzy smell of pancakes clung to our clothes all day. We, at a creamery on a summer evening, gobbling ice-creams before the heat gobbled them. At a picnic table with Jay on the grass, the birds wheeling above us, hopeful, and I licking the sandwich crumbs off my fingers to spite them. Moving implied an egregious theft of life as I knew it, and the secret that's planted in this house. A secret that cannot move with me. It's hidden in the weft and warp of 132 Blossom Street. It nestled in the tangles of the cedars, in the beam of the porchlight and in the filigree of sunlight on my bedroom floor. The plan was for me to die in this house with my secret intact, but my own Leaving Behind 7 traitorous mind had turned upon me, and thrown all my plans into a box of jumbled up puzzle pieces. The day I loaded the dishwasher with my laundry, I gave in. Let Jay win. I avoided looking at the "For Sale" sign on the front lawn like I would a bloody head on a platter. Instead, I concentrated on filling those boxes. Miraculously, one day, they were all done, and suddenly, I had nothing to do. I walked out to the garden, the yellow sun splattered in a white sky, and sat on the wrought-iron bench by the magnolia tree. Under it, lay our baby girl. Just as my mind was betraying me now, my body had betrayed me once. It had shown no respect for the new life brewing inside me, giving my hair its sheen, my breasts their fullness and my heart a joy I could barely contain. It had let the tiny life slip away from me on that spring night two years before Jay was born. Memories swam in my head - of Shuvo fetching his surgical bag and severing the umbilical cord, of blood and more blood on the white marble floor. The unbearable anguish of becoming unpregnant. Shuvo laid the foetus on the bed. She was still and cold; a luminescent moonbeam. An unspoken sentence quote marked by parents curled on either side, afraid to speak in case we woke the baby up. Although that's what we desperately wanted; to wake the baby up. In the pallid dark, my hand rested on her chest, as white and still as she. When dawn trembled on the horizon, Shuvo stood by my bedside, his face shrivelled like a walnut, bits of leaves and clay clinging to him. We read each other's thoughts like we always did. Leaving Behind 8 From the bottom drawer of the armoire, I took out my sandalwood jewellery case and removed the top tray. I flipped the case over and a tangle of bangles, necklaces, earrings and broaches tumbled out. I grazed my shaking fingertips on the red velvet lining, checking for bumps, sharp points, anything that could hurt my baby. I picked her up; her sealed eyes crisscrossed by tiny mauve tributaries, her body like gentle glass through which no organs throbbed. We gazed at her hungrily, drinking her in, trying to write every minutia of that beloved face into our hearts. I touched my lips to her cheek and they came away with an appalling iciness. Draping her in a silk scarf, we laid her in the jewellery box. White against the red. Tiny and flawless. A muffled snap as Shuvo closed the lid. I reached for my tailoring chalk and on the top, over the mother-of-pearl inlay Shuvo, in his calligraphic hand, wrote Baby Jewel. I didn't want my tears to smudge the words so I averted my face. Together, we plodded through the house made unfamiliar by silver shadows. Outside, we shuddered in the dark breeze that wrapped around us. Under the magnolia tree, Shuvo had dug a hole and I filled it with the fallen petals and my tears before he lowered our baby into the earth. With tired arms, we piled the sod, damp and black, over the grave. After, we fell back on the dew-drenched grass, our unimaginable sorrow holding up the cavernous sky. Shuvo called and wrote letters to inform all those that mattered; parents, close friends, but we never discussed that night. It remained embalmed and entombed in the jewellery boxes of our hearts, in the solitariness of truth, lonely but never forgotten. It hovered like an iceberg under the surface of our daily lives, sharp and glinting, ready to shipwreck us and allow grief and unspeakable pain to pour through every crack, every crevice until we thrashed and wallowed and eventually drowned in them. The silence was a kindness we owed each other. Over time, there came to be an intimacy about sharing our secret. We felt its presence often; in the first snow Leaving Behind 9 glazing the yard or when colour returned to the magnolia tree, but it came to us most of all in other people's baby girls, in pink ribbons and princess shoes. We would then turn to each other, our unspoken words morphing into smiles. Sad, shy smiles. A shyness that years of marriage could not banish. Someone was shaking me hard as if trying to shake out tiny butterflies from the wrinkles of my skin. "Ma, Ma, are you okay?" I gazed into the eyes of my son. My living child. I reached out to hold his hand but fear was already holding it. "What are you doing in the garden at this time? I couldn't find you in the house, and that scared me." Jay helped me to my feet and clasped me tight for a few seconds. "The sun made me a little drowsy," I whispered to the wind, over his shoulder. "I'm taking you home for a few days until the house closes and your new unit is ready." Jay's old smile had returned to his eyes. I did not resist and he looked relieved, happy almost. He packed me into his car, slammed the door shut, snapped his seatbelt in, and revved the engine. The For Sale sign was gone from the lawn. Maybe this was right. It's better to sell the house than to burn it down. As Jay drove off, I steeled myself to not look back, but I had this sudden insane desire to know who will move into my house. Who will cook in my kitchen, make love in my bedroom, stand Leaving Behind 10 naked in my shower, talk to my flowers and do the many things that were meant for Shuvo and me to do. Who, who? "Jay, do you know anything about the people ...?" A lump of tears in my throat wouldn't let me finish. "Yes, a young couple. Both architects." "Do they have any children?" "A baby girl." ***