Danny parked his wood-paneled Country Squire wagon in front of Mary's house. She was waiting for him, behind a chainlink fence in her "good" dress -- the navy blue one she wore to mass, weddings, and funerals. Her thick brown stockings bunched up at the tops of her heavy black practical shoes. A small felt hat was anchored to the top of her gray head, with a short dark veil in front of her blue eyes. Mary was ready. Mary and Danny had been born in this house on Benzinger Avenue. Her father had a heart attack right on that front porch and her mom died in the backyard from a mule kick to the head. Both parents were dead before she was sixteen, after which she had to care for her three siblings and an aunt with dementia. She raised her two boys in this house during the Depression. Now she was alone in it and, as she told Danny many times, the good Lord willing she would die there. Danny held the car door open for his mother and helped her into the car. "We can still back out, Mom? You don't have to do this," said Danny. Mary gripped his arm and said, "No, I've waited a long time and today is the day." From the front seat, she looked back at her home. It was a solid house, small but strong - painted green with gray trim. She took pride in the way she kept it up, including the roses in the small front garden. Mary remembered the warm summer evenings, when her sons were boys; families would congregate on the front porches and talk over their front gates while kids played stickball in the streets. She frowned at the houses now on either side of hers. Their paint was peeling and the underlying wood was rotting. Old appliances and stuffed trash bags crowded the front porches, which were missing balustrades like knocked out teeth. The streets were quiet except for the barking dogs that went all day and night. "Look at them. They just don't give a damn how they live," she said under her breath. Mary began to feel queasy and was glad when their short trip ended their shared anxious silence. She stepped out of Danny's car on to the loop road of St Peter's Cemetery. She found the place as comfortable and inviting as her front parlor; she knew more people inside the cemetery than outside. Her parents and her husband shared a burial plot, not more than a hundred feet from the Clove Road entrance. Not far from there, her grandfather, who served with the Irish Brigade and died at Antietam, was buried. Her younger brother, drowned in Leyte Gulf during WWII, had a nice spot overlooking Martling Lake. And then there were all the rest of her cousins and neighbors and friends. It was like everyone had relocated from their West Brighton homes to this new neighborhood. Mary made this trip at least once a month. Usually she took the bus and carried a shopping bag with a trowel, a small rake and flowers from her garden to spruce up the gravesites. But today was different. Mary knew exactly where she was going, but today a bright yellow backhoe against the dark green grass and the gray headstones was like a beacon showing her the way. The storm clouds had all passed and it was going to be a beautiful day. She walked up the soggy hill and was met by a man in an overcoat. "Good morning, Mrs Kowalski. We are ready to begin whenever you are." Mary crossed herself, straightened her thick glasses, and whispered a quick prayer. "Please get started, Mr. Clancy," said Mary. She stood ramrod straight holding her simple black purse in front of her with both hands. A tall woman, her erect posture made her seem even taller. Clancy turned and nodded to the backhoe's driver. The silence of the cemetery was broken with a large belch of grey smoke from the backhoe. The bucket lifted, came down and dug into the soft green earth that hadn't been disturbed in decades. They stood their vigil at a close, but safe distance away, as the work proceeded. The funeral director, Mr. Clancy had recommended that Out of Earth 3 of 16 she wait at the funeral home, but Mary insisted on being there through the whole process. She didn't trust any of these men and wasn't going to let some idiot screw this up. "Supposed to be sunny all day," said Danny. "But you've brought the big umbrella, just in case?" said Mary "Yes" Danny nodded his head. "Thank you for wearing your suit. You look good, so handsome. Your father would be proud," Mary said. Her feet were soaked from walking across the wet grass and her dress shoes pinched her cold feet. As the shovels of dirt and years of waiting were dug out of the earth, the arthritis pain in her knees worsened. "Remember the day we got that telegram. Thanksgiving Day, 1950. Lord, save us and protect us. I couldn't believe he was dead," Mary said and crossed herself. "And then four long years of waiting," said Danny. Out of Earth 4 of 16 Yes, she thought. Four years after the telegram. Four years. Four years of agony waiting for her son to come home. Waiting to grieve. Always waiting. Still waiting. "Maybe he's still alive," said Mary. "Ray's dead, Mom. God rest his soul. We buried him in 1954. We both stood right here," said Danny. "Four years, anything could have happened to him during that time" said Mary. "Ray's dead, Mom." "Maybe." "And what if it's not him, Mom? What then?" He had never asked her that question before and was surprised he would ask it. Mary had had this conversation many times over the past 25 years with Danny, with her husband, with nameless, gray-suited government officials, and with anyone else that would listen. She told them the same basic story every time, but added new facts and theories referring to the official correspondence, newspaper and magazine clippings, which she had collected and organized in stacks on Ray's bed. And they did listen at first, how do you not listen to a grieving mother. But Out of Earth 5 of 16 after awhile her story became repetitive and worn out, and people stayed away from her to avoid the conversation. Mary fell silent and her eyes grew darker behind her thick glasses. She stared out over the rows of headstones to some place very far away. What if it is not him? Then what? She shifted her thoughts to the first time she saw him. She swore that the day he was born, he was smiling. Always a happy boy. A fearless child. Jumping off the roof, taking crazy risks to get her attention. The older he got the wilder he became, her rebukes were the only thing he feared. But she knew he was a good boy, he just needed a chance to prove himself. She always knew he had it in him. He'd made her so happy and proud the day he came home from Parris Island wearing his Marine Corps uniform. The Marines didn't take just anyone. She had re-read the letters this morning from the men whose lives Ray had saved. They talked about his happy go lucky attitude and wrote stories about his generosity and character that made her smile. "The Russians took captured Marines to Moscow. He could still be there. Or in China." "Mom, that's crazy." Out of Earth 6 of 16 "Even if he is dead that still might not be his body. Maybe he's buried in Hawaii. There's over 800 unidentified remains that also came home that year. Buried them all in a mass grave in Hawaii. He could be one of those poor souls," Mary said, crossing herself again. "If he is there, we will never know for sure." Mary ignored him and said, "We buried a body, they told me was my son. I never saw the body, they never let me look. Thought I couldn't handle it. It was your father who couldn't handle it." As Mary watched the workers, a familiar anger rose up in her again as it did nearly every day for the past 25 years. The Army left his body in North Korea after they retreated. The cowards couldn't wait to get out of there. If the Marines were running things it would have been different. It took Truman, the UN and the Chinese four years to get his body back. She thought about the American and North Korean graves details and all the other strangers that had handled her son's body and the other poor boys as they made their trips around the world in search of a final resting place. Every year, Mary attended the annual Memorial Day ceremony held by the Staten Island's Marine Corps League Detachment 246. At first, all her family and Ray's friends would attend and pay their respects to Ray's memory and to Mary. But every year, the crowd got smaller. After her husband died, it was just her. Each year, it was always the same - the roll call, the 21gun salute, taps. During the roll call of honor, her son's name was called out: Out of Earth 7 of 16 "Raymond Aloyisius Kowalski, Private First Class. Korea, November 23, 1950. Navy Cross." By the time the bugler played taps, people had tears streaming down their faces. Mary never cried, she hurt but no tears ever came. She visited her son's grave every month, the last stop on her visits through the cemetery. Some would think she was saving the most important visit for last. But the truth was she was uncomfortable visiting her son's grave. She could pray anywhere at anytime, but in the cemetery her prayers were forced. She felt awful about it, so she prayed for her son's soul in church and in the silence of her home. She tried talking to Ray graveside, but the words wouldn't come out. In her empty home, she would talk to his picture all day. Every morning and in the afternoon when she would take her tea and cookies in the parlor, she would talk to him and get him up to speed on the happenings in her life and the world. But here in the cemetery, where she should feel the closest, she felt the furthest away. It didn't take her long to conclude that his body wasn't here and wherever he was, he was not at rest. The clay covered casket was finally lifted out of the ground. It stopped for a moment in mid-air and spun - bright wet tan against the blue skies - before it was placed on a flatbed truck. Casey, the funeral director, had recommended a hearse, but Mary thought it was a waste of money and assumed Casey was just trying to take advantage of her. She regretted it now as they lashed the casket slightly off center to the truck bed with green straps. She gave them a flag, the same one given to her at Ray's funeral, to drape over the casket. When they were ready to go, Mary Out of Earth 8 of 16 insisted they wait until Danny pulled his car around to follow the truck. On Bement Avenue, the truck sped up and Ray began to separate from his brother and mother. "Don't let them get away from you," Mary said staring ahead at the tarp covered casket strapped to the truck, strips of American flag were visible under the flapping tarp. She couldn't let Ray out of her sight, but she felt like she was floating. Mary was glad it was a short ride to the funeral home. There's no turning back now she thought. How undignified, how terrible the whole procedure was. Her heart was pounding, what had she done? Why not just leave him where he was? Father O'Brien's replacement was waiting for them inside the funeral home. Mary didn't trust him and couldn't remember the priest's name, but she knew it wasn't Irish. She also didn't like that he was so young, and called her by her first name. "Good morning, Mary. Is there anything I can do for you? Shall we pray together?" "I'm fine, Father", said Mary stepping past the priest. "Thank you for coming, Father," Danny said and shook the priest's hand. Out of Earth 9 of 16 Mr. Clancy approached Mary. "We are ready to open the casket. You can wait here if you'd like. There probably won't be much to see. We will just be looking for a dog tag as we don't have any dental records." "No, I want to be there when you open it" "Are you sure, Mary?" asked the priest. "Yes, he's my son or someone's son. A mother should be there." They walked past the soft, warm visitation rooms into the cold, white back room that looked like a laboratory and was pungent with formaldehyde and cigarettes. Mary saw the same workers from the cemetery, but they were now equipped with hammers and crow bars. Once all were assembled, Clancy nodded to them. The thwack, thwack, thwack of metal on metal filled the quiet room and Mary's ears, followed by the soft sound of splintering wood. Mary didn't take her eyes off the casket. The workers put down their tools and lifted the top of the casket with a slow yawn. The room seemed to fill with the chill of a North Korean winter from 1950. The priest crossed himself and murmured a prayer. The moment Mary had been hoping for, and dreading for years, was here finally. She thought Danny should have his arm around her, that's what people do. But was glad he didn't, it Out of Earth 10 of 16 felt wrong. Danny moved up to stand right next to her and their shoulders touched. Clancy had changed into a white lab coat and bright red rubber gloves. Mary peered over his shoulder. She could see gray dust and what she imagined were bones poking through a tattered and moldy green uniform. Clancy was examining the skull. "There is a dog tag here." Clancy was holding up the dog tag and read aloud: "Raymond Aloysius Kowalski... 672548921... USMC... Blood type - O... Roman Catholic" "That's him," said Danny. Clancy handed the dog tag to Mary. She made a fist around it and held it to her breast. "Ray", she said. She closed her eyes and images of Ray came flooding back. She saw him again - the baby, the boy, the man. Always the same wide smile. He would have been given her such beautiful grandchildren. The rest of the afternoon was a reversal of the morning - from the funeral home, to the cemetery, to the gravesite. After it was all over, Danny drove his mother home. Out of Earth 11 of 16 "Park the car, Danny and come in. I've got a coffee cake and I will make you some coffee." Mary sat in her kitchen waiting for her tea to steep. Her son stirred sweet-n-low into his Nescafe. A half-eaten Entenmann's coffee cake sat in front of them. Mary put her hand on top of Danny's and patted it twice. "You're a good boy, Danny. Thank you". "How are you doing, Mom?" "I'm fine." "There was a minute there that I thought it might not be him." Danny said. Outside, clouds were moving quickly across the sky. He took a deep breath and sighed, "It's over now. We can let him rest and move on with our lives. I never realized what a weight it's been." Mary thought she saw new wrinkles around Danny's eyes and noticed that his puffy cheeks were beginning to sag. "I'm happy for you, Danny." Out of Earth 12 of 16 She looked up at a picture of a young Marine dressed in a midnight blue uniform with red stripes and a standing collar. The fading picture hung on a wall above a small kitchen table, which was covered with a sticky plastic tablecloth. Mary's eyes were welling up with tears. She was trying to remember the last time she cried. Christmas, 1949. The Korean War hadn't started yet and Ray was home on leave. It was early morning and they were sitting at this kitchen table. "I want to come home, Mom. My enlistment is up in a month and I am done with the Marine Corps," Ray said. "But the Marines have made a man out of you. Look at you. I am so proud. Just re-enlist for two more years. It will go quick and then you can come home." "I don't know, Mom. I'm not a great Marine. I'm still a Private." "Nonsense. You are strong and brave. You are going to be a great Marine that everyone will talk about, you mark my words." She understood the risks of joining the military. But the Marines had been good for Ray and all the neighbors knew he was now one of these elite. Before the marines, Ray had gotten mixed up with those hoodlums in St George. She knew he was cutting school, smoking marijuana, and Out of Earth 13 of 16 failing all his classes. She knew what was best for her son and her reputation. The benefits outweighed the risks; besides atomic bombs made it impossible for countries to go to war, it was suicidal. "No, I'm not. I want to come home. I talked to Murf and he could get me a job at Bethlehem Steel, building ships." Mary knew what those dockworkers were like, hanging out in bars on Richmond Terrace. She'd walked past them once on the way to the ferry. The whistling and catcalling. No way was he going to work there. "The war is over, they are going to be closing those shipyards. Besides, do you want to lose your fingers and toes. Your Uncle Johnny worked there during the war, lost his eye. He was never too bright, but now he's half blind as well. The poor fool. Do you think any girl would want you like that?" "Well, I'll find something. I can't go back." "Ray, I am not going to say this again. You are heading back and you will re-enlist. If you don't so help me...". She couldn't continue, she broke down and started to cry. She stared at the table cloth, the faded daisy pattern with the coffee cup stains. She hated to cry in front of other people. Ray's resolve was broken now. Out of Earth 14 of 16 "Ok, Mom. Maybe just two more years." She wiped her eyes and stared over at Ray. He hadn't shaved yet and there was red stubble on his chin. His close-cropped red hair made his ears stick out further than they normally did. He was growing into a man, but he still needed her. "You'll make sergeant some day. You'll see. I know you can do it. When they are looking for a volunteer, you shoot your hand up right away. No matter what it is even if you don't know how to do it. That's how you get ahead." Mary stood up and hugged Ray and kissed him like she did when he was a baby. He looked at her and smiled a wide grin. She never told anyone about that conversation. She let everyone think it was Ray's idea to reenlist. She also never told anyone about the nightmares she had every night since 1950. They were always similar. She was in a snowy, mountainous, and dark landscape, it was an evil place as if winter had redefined hell by turning down heat and blocking out the sun. The cold made her shiver and she knew Ray had forgotten to put on his parka. She could see him and he was alone, but the snow was too deep for her to get to him. She was shouting, but he didn't hear her. She kept walking, reaching out with the parka. Then Ray was surrounded by dozens of faceless Chinese soldiers. He was crying out for her on his knees, weeping in the icy snow. Out of Earth 15 of 16 She pulled a tissue out that she had in her sleeve and wiped the tears from her face. She knew that today wasn't going to stop those nightmares. Dog tags probably got mixed up all the time with all that confusion. Who knew for sure where her son was? But he would be back in her dreams tonight, maybe that was best. After Danny left and the house was quiet. Mary climbed the stairs to her bedroom and changed out of her dress and put on her husband's old gray slacks and his chambray shirt that she wore to work in the garden. She went out to her front porch and looked over at her beloved rose garden. Her cabbage rose bush was once again growing over her porch railing, its thorns would be poking visitors. It always grew like that and reminded her of Ray - gangly and unruly. She needed to trim the rose bushes before someone got hurt. Out of Earth 16 of 16