The Lansing real estate market is heating up. Among the new listings is a spacious fourbedroom, three-bath center-entrance Colonial, built in 2003, at 5 Cherry Blossom Lane in prestigious North Lansing. This one-owner home boasts over 3,100 square feet of finished living space and sits on 0.72 acres in the quiet, family-friendly Timmings Pond subdivision. The property is listed by Realtor Marguerite Robideaux of Robideaux Realty for $649,900. (Tom and Evelyn Carbone attended open houses on nineteen consecutive Saturdays before vastly overpaying for 5 Cherry Blossom Lane.) A paver walkway connects the driveway with the main entry, which has granite-topped brick steps and a four-column front-gabled portico. The entry door has frosted privacy sidelights and a matching transom. The floors throughout the main level are distressed hardwood reclaimed from the former Timmings Mill. The two-story grand foyer has an ample guest coat closet. (Tom's must-haves were a manageable mortgage and a better commute. Evelyn's must-haves were a blue-ribbon school district, a kitchen facing east, an upper-level laundry center, a vaultedceiling great room, a gunite pool, and a master suite. Evelyn got everything on her must-have list except the gunite pool. Tom got a longer commute.) Off the foyer is a front-facing office perfect for the stay-at-home worker. Dual French doors add privacy and elegance. Floor-to-ceiling maple bookcases are centered between two closets. (Tom has taken to shutting the French doors and working in here at night until everyone else is either asleep or pretending to sleep.) The formal living room is highlighted by egg-and-dart molding and a chair rail. Four oversized windows bathe the cream walls in natural light. The custom window treatments are negotiable. The raised gas fireplace has a stone hearth, fieldstone surround, and wooden mantel. To its right is a built-in bench with storage below a seven-pane bow window. (Sometimes after the school bus picks up Marina and Doug, Evelyn sits on the hearth and weeps.) The formal dining room has the same high-end finishing as the living room and adds wainscoting. The walls are wine over white. The antique center light fixture is negotiable. Two china cabinets provide both storage and display. (It has been thirty-two months since all four members of the Carbone family ate a meal together in the dining room.) An arched doorway leads to the kitchen, designed to delight even the most ardent cooking enthusiast. Demi bullnose-edged granite counters rest atop long stretches of custom maple cabinetry. Dainty ceramic tiles make up the backsplash. An extra-deep stainless-steel sink sits below three six-over-six windows with views of the rear yard. High-end appliances include a double wall oven, a five-burner gas range, and a wine chiller. The appliances are negotiable. (Last year, Evelyn threw a highball glass at Tom during a midnight argument in the kitchen. Evelyn's throw missed, and the glass chipped two backsplash tiles. Tom used grout and a Sharpie to mask the damage.) A center granite-topped island with overhang, illuminated by globe pendant lights, has barheight seating for four. A separate serving counter adds a plethora of doored storage, and a desk area provides productivity space. (Evelyn's lover Aaron fucked Evelyn against the island three years ago, a month after their twentieth high-school reunion. Evelyn implored Aaron to be careful during the fucking, as that model of pendant light had long been discontinued.) A tiled mudroom off the kitchen provides entry to the under-home three-car garage. At the rear of the garage is a workbench area with cabinets and shelves. (Evelyn and Aaron sat in her SUV in the garage on a rainy Wednesday morning the week after the reunion, her skipping a One House, Two Stories / 3 hot yoga class, him telling his wife that he had to meet a client. They kissed for the first time-- starting tentatively, continuing frantically.) The step-down front-to-back great room with vaulted ceiling affords views of the rear yard and has a set of sliders to the deck. A gas fireplace with a single-slab hearth adds both comfort and relaxation. A built-in cabinet on an interior wall holds mementos and knickknacks. The main level is completed by a well-appointed powder room with a graceful pedestal sink and a goodsized closet for linens. (Seven months ago, Evelyn and Aaron sat on facing sofas here and talked yet again about ending it. That same night, Evelyn and Tom sat on facing sofas here and talked yet again about ending it.) Upstairs, the master bedroom has a tray ceiling and recessed lights. The walls throughout this level are painted in light earth tones, and the floors are covered with Saxony carpeting. The walk-in his-and-her closets, each with folding doors made of zebrawood with inlaid mahogany, have custom storage systems with hanging, drawered, and shelved options. (Evelyn searches Tom's closet religiously but, to her disappointment, never finds anything salacious. She ignores the old gym bag stuffed in the back corner. Inside the gym bag is a Chicago Cubs windbreaker that belonged to Cindy, Tom's former college girlfriend. Cindy lives in Blackpool, Lancashire, England, and has not seen or spoken to Tom since they broke up in 1996. Cindy recently blocked Tom on Facebook after he reached out and said he had had a dream about her.) The master bath is floored in Italian stone. Both the jet tub and the glass-doored step-in steam shower are finished with white subway tiles. A marble vanity and oversized wall mirror are set below three period lamps. Two cubby closets provide bonus room for essentials. (Two months ago, after Aaron and Evelyn agreed for the ninth time to end their affair, Aaron took Evelyn One House, Two Stories / 4 from behind, the shower stall filling with steam as she pressed her hands against the subway tiles.) The other three bedrooms are all well-sized. Each has a ceiling fan and a wide closet with custom hanging and shelved storage systems. The community bathroom has a tub/shower finished with the same subway tiles as those in the master bath. A sizable closet stores necessities. The home's laundry center is conveniently placed on this level and has a large utility closet. The washer and dryer are negotiable. (Because Evelyn frequently searches their closets, Marina and Doug keep their drugs in a hollowed-out space behind a strip of loose molding in the community bathroom's closet.) The basement is finished, save for a small unfinished room holding the home's utilities. A media room with built-in shelving has bead board walls and Berber carpeting. A second room finished with shiplap is used as a game room and is outfitted with a snooker table and dart board. The carpeting here is wall-to-wall nylon frieze. The snooker table is negotiable. (In October, Evelyn tried unsuccessfully to clean a tryst-stain, as Aaron calls them, off of the previouslyunblemished snooker felt. The next morning, Evelyn pointed out the stain to Tom, laying blame on a spilled cup of Fanta and laying into Marina and Doug.) The home's exterior is clad in tan vinyl with black shutters and white trim. A portion of the front is faced with brick. Mature evergreens and deciduous shrubs circle the foundation and pepper the grounds. A white PVC privacy fence marks the rear property border, while a stone wall and a line of Eastern white pines delineate the respective side property lines. A shed accommodates landscaping and maintenance equipment. (A loose rock on the stone wall reveals a hole in which Tom hides the butts from late-night forbidden cigarettes. He uses copious amounts of hand sanitizer to mask the resulting smell. Evelyn is not fooled, yet she never One House, Two Stories / 5 confronts Tom about it, as he might then ask why she stores copious amounts of hand sanitizer in her SUV.) Cherry Blossom Lane is one of five streets in the Timmings Pond subdivision. Each street has sidewalks on both sides, and the subdivision is a short stroll from two parks and the town recreation fields. School-age children living in Timmings Pond attend the Fairmount Elementary and West Middle schools and the Lansing/Platt Regional high school. (The high school recently acquired access to a therapy dog for student emotional support use on standardized testing days. Many students, including Marina and Doug, wish that the therapy dog was available every day.) For more information on 5 Cherry Blossom Lane, a consummate home in family-friendly North Lansing, contact Realtor Marguerite Robideaux of Robideaux Realty at (774) 555-6810. ##