Finally got a chance to write back to you. When they told us no internet they meant no internet, telephones or any modern form of communication. Apparently the big guy doesn't believe in moving to the 21st century. There is a request for upgrade but it's going to take a while; all the problems of big government. You could have gone a bit easy on the letters. Ten in ten days is not healthy. It's been hectic since I got here. Lots of orientations and seminars. Plus, there is sooo much paperwork!! For two days I just signed papers and stamped forms. You shouldn't worry, I am having bundles of fun. The chocolate chip cookies you sent were delicious; reminded me of home; send more. How is everyone? Hope Dad isn't boasting to his friends about my new job; it's embarrassing. I'm afraid when my boss hears about it he won't be pleased. I have to bunk with a total country bumpkin from Kansas. David is odd and over the top funny. Keeps up the entire dorm with his singing and tells some of the dirtiest jokes. How he gets away with them, here of all places, only God knows. Will ask him someday?. I am NOT, I REPEAT NOT, asking for the winning lotto numbers. There is a rumor that someone tried it once and was sent home instantaneously; and I don't mean waited to catch the flight home, just poof and was gone. All my effort is focused towards not getting fired in the first month. Two in my batch quit yesterday because of the workload. Your young boy Freddy is not only hanging in there but just might be the best in the batch, the supervisor said so. They started me with the small stuff, logging prayer requests coming in from our home town. Learning a lot about our neighbors (forbidden to tell you details, another poofable act). Pray for me mom, the boss is listening. Put in a few good words for me and my success. I'll write again soon. I really hate not having WiFi. Love Freddy P.S: Don't let Jacob near my comics. I swear to God, who I work for?, I will kick his backside if my comics are missing, damaged or have his greasy marks on them. January 17th Hi Mom, I have been swamped up to my neck in prayers. Such a load of cry-babies "I want to be prettier, I want to be smarter, make me taller". Why do we pray so much? I log ten prayers per minute and then another hundred pop up. Get those done then a thousand pop up, could you please pray a little less for the next week or two ?. My supervisor Ernesto has been breathing down my neck. He thinks he's a big shot with wings and the halo above his fat head. I'm going over his head one day and telling the guy upstairs how he treats the interns. He chewed my ear out yesterday when I mixed up prayers from the B and D folders. Instead of babies, they had a ton of dog requests that got forwarded. It was an honest mistake, I got overloaded with work and messed the labels. They should give a guy some slack. I miss you mom. The cooking here is nothing like yours. Yesterday we had fillet mignon; juicy; tender and well-seasoned. I had a bite and it melted in my mouth but it wasn't delicious. It didn't have the right flavors like you put in. I told the chef and he flipped out. Shouting out loud that he used to cook at a Michelin Star restaurant in New York, like I care. I know I complain but I love it here, a true God sent. Lol, lame jokes, have been spending too much time with my roommate David. The guy cannot open his mouth without cracking a joke. Yesterday we went to a bar and David made me laugh so hard I almost soiled myself. Which reminds me, could you send a few extra pairs of underwear. This has been a tough month. Have to adjust to the number of prayer requests, it's exhausting. People just keep on asking and begging, it never ends. Keep praying for me Ma, I need to stay strong. It's tough but I am beginning to get the hang of it. Just not separate prayers, compile all your prayers into one long one so I don't have to sort them all out. Love Freddy February 1st Mom, Mom, Mom, I have some really exciting news. It will knock your socks off. I met Michael today; right there besides me. He was just floating around waiting for the elevator, really nice. I said Hi and he said Hi and we rode up the elevator together. He is as cool as you have heard. Mom, I have a crush and I don't deny it. Michael is amazing. He gave a lecture to the intern class about organization, its different divisions and its importance to the world, each word measured and delivered with an aura of magnificence. I knew I had to write to you about him, knowing how much you cherish him. I was in a trance, hanging on his every word before I realized a half hour had passed and I had been standing the whole time. Moments like these make me feel like I made the right decision in working hard to get this internship. All the tests and trials were worth even this single meeting. After the meeting I had a chat with the other interns and they were equally entranced. Not to brag, but I asked an important question to which he said "insightful observation". Your boy has some insights. Oh Mom, I love you so much for pushing me all these years, all the time I ran out on our lessons and you dragged me and strapped me to the chair. Now those lessons don't feel useless ?. Thanks for letting me know about Dad's ankle injury. He should be more careful at the site. Told him so many times he shouldn't be running around like a teenager. Tell him that he can't do the same antics that Jacob does. Jacob is a spry 17 year old. Dad is three times Jacob's age. He's lucky it wasn't worse. I'll pray that he gets well soon. Might log my own prayer. Pray for me mom and send me more warm cloths and cookies. I haven't had time to go out shopping. I start my first internship rotation in a week. Ernesto will assign them as he likes and it would give me the first experience of how God's enterprise works on Earth. With today's inspiration I think I'll be working twice as hard. I love you Mom Freddy February 13th Dear Ma, Thanks for sending me the cloths and the cookies. I didn't get to try any Cookies ?, David got his grubby hands on them and ate the entire box. Next time send two boxes. The weather has gotten cold. After the last letter I sent you it snowed for 10 days straight. Throughout the day it's either stay in the dorm or get stuck in the office. Nothing to do but work, pray and sleep. A bit gloomy for my taste. Its Valentine's Day tomorrow and I don't have a date. Feeling a bit down in the dumps ?. I was thinking of last year when I asked Debby from across the street to be my Valentine. I can imagine you pouting because I didn't tell you about her before. I did not to embarrass me senseless. We went dancing with Tom and Jessie and walked along on the Santa Monica Pier. Debby is beautiful, wonder where she is these days? I haven't met anyone here because of work. I'll be alone tomorrow. Worst thing is that David has a date. He met a girl who works at the coffee place and asked her out during their first meeting. Can you believe it!! The bumpkin asked her out and she said yes. They have been dating for a week now. I haven't met her, but he is head over heel in love with her. Works been hectic, hardly have had the time to focus on myself. I was assigned to my first internship rotation last week. I am still logging prayers, but now I am also supporting the planning and forecasting division. Its coffee runs for now but I am going to get in there and make a difference. Just like you hammered into me all those years. How's Jacob doing? Haven't heard you mention him in your letters. I know he is too cool for writing to his big brother. Tell him to write sometimes, using a pen and paper. I might let him borrow my comic books if he is a good boy. Pray for me Ma, I need to learn and grow as an individual and as a believer. It's so easy for us to get lost in our lives and forget the bigger picture. I need to remember why I am here and what this is all about. Love Freddy February 27th Hi Mom, Yes I did see that I wrote Works wrong in the fourth paragraph in my last letter. It's not my fault, I blame autocorrect for my woes of improper grammar. I can't wait for the internet to start working here and there might be good news on that front. They finalized a plan and now it's about actually laying out the wires and hooking up with the internet. I like sending you letters but better to have a video chat then waiting days to hear from you. WORK IS going well (see I do learn from mistakes. Tell Dad the same. He might learn to not break the same ankle in two months pulling the same stunt). I was assigned to Todd in the planning and forecasting division. He is a complete drill sergeant, have to do everything by the book otherwise he starts giving lectures on the proper way to do things. It's infuriating, I didn't put the numbers in as he likes, he gave me a lecture; I didn't put in the God coefficient correctly, he gave me a lecture. This rotation has been more about lectures and less about the work. He is a good person though. He took the interns out to dinner last week. We got a lecture on the proper etiquette of holding utensils but I wasn't complaining about the free food. I wasn't listening ?. I worked on planning for rains, floods and the crop cycle and forecasting the effects. Yesterday orders came in from upstairs to ease the drought a bit in California. I was ecstatic and I could see a lot of other happy faces. There are many here from Cali. My boss Todd was working on the numbers to see how much to let go and what would keep the weather in check without consequences. I mostly fetched coffee but he did put me in charge of validating calculations of rain to area density. I finally learned something! I will be here for another week before I switch over to a nextt division. They'll rotate us to a new division every month. Another intern quit last week. Rumors are that he worked in the baby division. I don't want to get into that anytime soon. Also wanted to let you know, that Jacob finally wrote to me. He was being his usual self, pretending to be cool and teasing me how he was rolling in piles of my comic books. Just making sure, you have kept my comics safe right? I trust you, but some photographic evidence would be comforting. Love Freddy March 10th Mother!! I asked you to keep Jacob away from my Comics and yesterday I get a picture from him, reading my comic books while others are just thrown on his bed. Not cool Mother. This was the only thing I asked of you and you couldn't even keep him from that! I am so angry right now, can't even focus on work. This week I joined the Interstellar division where we plan supernovas and planet formations. I was so excited to tell you all about the out of the world things I have learned but I am so mad. My room is supposed to be my safe-zone and now it's violated. I should have asked Dad to knock some sense into Jacob or better done it myself before I left. I am coming back for spring break at the end of the month and I am going to beat him to a pulp. Oh I'm furious!! Bye, Frederick March 12th Dear Ma, I am sorry. I couldn't sleep knowing what I had said in the previous letter. I was angry and stressed. Jacob's letter caught me off guard and I snapped. It's gotten much tougher here with the Interstellar division rotation. I went in and my supervisor Bellamy gave me a ton of calculations to do, maps to sort. It just got to me and I lashed out at you. I can't imagine I said those things to you. I heard that Moses was coming to visit in a week and only two or three interns would get to meet him, face to face, to pitch ideas for Universe Betterment. I don't even know what that means. You know I love you, now and always. David also has a hand in me writing back to apologize. I told him what I had written to you and he was furious with me. He gave me a talking to in his bumpkin way. I felt even worse and decided to write again (he is looking over my shoulders as I write this). You would like him, he has all these stories about the farm he grew up in and how he woke at the crack of dawn to do his chores. Don't get any bright ideas, I am not waking up before 8am. He is a hard worker and a genuine person, just like you and Dad want me to be. There is one treat I can give you, as an apology. On March 17th at around 830 pm look at RA 13h03m33.35 -49o31'38.1" dec 4.83 mag Cen. It's a fancy way of locating stars in the sky. Ask Jacob he should be able to look it up online, he owes me one. You should see a twinkle at that time. That is the beginning of a new solar system that your boy had a hand in initiating. Don't think I'm bragging about being God, he will know and I will get in trouble. I'm just saying I was there as an observer. There is magic in this universe mom, amazing stars, planets and possibilities. It saddens me I can't show it to you. Maybe I'll recommend that mom's be allowed to visit on Mother's Day ?. I should get going. All the interns are going out tonight for some really needed R&R. Maybe I'll meet someone and send pictures to you so you can make Jacob Jealous. Love Freddy P.S: I will be coming home March 23rd for a week and might not get another chance to write before that. So if you want anything from here. You better ask for it in the next letter. The mail service will be swamped around the break. April 4th Hey Mom, Got back yesterday. Had a blast back at home. I never realized how much I missed home cooking until I had your roast beef. The chef's here don't make food anywhere as good as yours. Tell Dad, he should go easy on the food, he's not getting any younger. On the other hand, given how he outplayed me on the court, maybe I take up his diet. JK, I'll keep my diet proper. Guess what, remember I told you about inviting the moms on Mother's day? I was talking about it with the other interns and Ernesto, the internship supervisor, overheard it and was taken with it. He suggested it to management and they agreed to set it up. I wanted to let you know right away so you can plan. May 20th, mark it down on your calendar and be ready to enjoy the most epic place on Earth. I'll take you to Peter's Cafe across the road, amazing vibe and relaxing atmosphere. It's the Cafe where David's girlfriend works. Finally found out her name, Mona. They make a cute couple. We can go attend lectures on the meaning of life by Professor B. I'll take you shopping and site seeing, so much to do. Of course how could I forget taking you to the beach and take you swimming with the BLUE WHALES!! You'll believe it when you see them. Massive beasts just roaming around and smart as hell a whip. I promise you'll have load of fun. I didn't get selected to meet Moses. Am bummed out?. My idea on Universe Betterment wasn't selected in the top three. Maybe I'll get another chance in the future to meet one of the prophets. My next rotation is with Corporate, I start next week. Financials, Cash Flows and budgeting. That's just my guess of what it'll be like. That what the other big firms do. This is God's work so it might be more exciting. I met the Corporate Division's supervisor today. Samantha, she's from India. Lovely woman, she was smiling throughout our meeting and it was sweet and creepy at the same time, as if she was hiding something. I am still logging prayers from our area. They told me that it is going to continue until the end of the internship. Probably preparing me to know the people when and if I get a full assignment. Love you Mom Freddy April 16th Hi Mom, I don't know what to say. These last few weeks have been.... Different. I thought the Corporate Division would have me running with the bigwigs, being part of decision making and the intrigues of the boardroom. The guys in the corporate division here, don't do anything. My supervisor Samantha, the one I told you about last time, is smart, sophisticated and insightful. Yet all she does is go meet people for coffee, talk about how they are doing, the weather and general jibber jabber. During one of our sessions she gathered the interns in a conference room and asked us to discuss knitting. She gave us some direction but overall, for a full day we talked about the wonder of knitting, its uses, different techniques, who would be interested in doing it. We learned where the best material for knitting comes from and what is new and exciting. Absolutely nothing mother. I was lost from the start and sat there feeling like an idiot. There's this intern from Sichuan China who talked about knitting for more than an hour. He told us a story about how he used to knit with his Grandma. Samantha contributed by telling her own stories of when she knit cloths for her children and grandchildren. She showed us a sweater she had made for her granddaughter. I don't know what I'm supposed to be learning here. It certainly has been an eye opener when it comes to knitting ? (I am not going to knit with you if you have any thoughts about it). I have a few more weeks in this division. I might learn about butter churning tomorrow, I don't know. This has been a weird rotation I must say. There is one thing I want to talk to you about. I am forbidden to give you details but could you just keep an eye out on the neighborhood? It has nothing to do with crime or trouble but just try to engage with the neighbors. Be a good neighbor, yes that is what I want to say. Oh!! Also are you preparing for your visit? Don't worry about the travel and accommodations. They are all taken care of. Just be ready on May 19th at 10am. Also bring Dad. It's Mother's Day but it doesn't mean Dads not allowed. There might also be a surprise by someone special ?. Love you Mom Freddy April 29th Dear Mom, Last day here in the Corporate Division. I had a presentation on "Cultural impacts of films on popular imagination". Presented it to the entire intern class and a group of people from corporate. Samantha helped me prepare a VR slideshow for the audience using state of the art tech, they just brought in. It was [redacted]. Surprising, how this place has high tech gadgets yet no internet or phones. I took the audience through the development of the arts starting from the Greeks depiction of Tragedy and Comedy to the pop action movies of today. Of course I talked about gaming and how it has become a medium of magnificent story telling. To have the players live stories through the game. I talked about the mystique of Metal Gear Solid, the intensity of Halo and serenity of Journey. You haven't heard of any of these but these are big names in the gaming world. For half an hour I immersed the audience in shock and awe. Someone snapped a picture of the class while I was speaking. You can see in the photo that the audience was mesmerized. I am starting my next rotation Monday in the Water division. Met Gina, the new Supervisor. She is an old woman from Hawaii and when I say old I mean ancient. I would tell you old people jokes, if I wasn't afraid she would die of them. I had to yell in her ear just to introduce myself. I don't know how interested I am in this. I was thinking of asking to get a different division then water. We only get ten divisions in the rotations out of a possible three hundred. I was thinking of exchanging rotations with a girl who's going into the science division. It's not in my list of rotations and I really want to go into the science division. My experience in the interstellar division was amazing. The science division should be like it but more Earth focused. Will talk to her today. How's Jacob doing? His Prom would be coming up soon. He said he was thinking of asking Dezaray, the Robinson's younger daughter. She's a good kid and he would be lucky if she said yes. Tell him not to wait like he did in middle school and the girl he liked got asked out. I still remember the long nights he spent listening to emo songs, kept me up all night. Has he heard anything from the colleges he applied to? It's not easy getting a job these days. If he doesn't work hard, he might get stuck in a dead end job. Don't tell him this but I worry about him. He's young and careless. It would be bad for him if he doesn't focus. Love you Mom Freddy P.S: Hey, Did you check up on the neighbors? Your last letter didn't mention anything so was just checking. I know I can't tell you much. Maybe check in with one of the groups you work with. They might have heard something? May 15th Hi Mom, I am sorry haven't written to you in a while. The day I started at the water division it was chaos and mayhem. Gina from Hawaii, the person in charge of the water division is insane. She has me reporting to her about the water level in Isle de Jean Charles off the coast of Louisiana every hour on the hour. On top of that she took the team to look at the waste that has accumulated in the Pacific, the Artic and the Indian Oceans. We just went there to look, didn't touch, and didn't clean. We just looked at it. Islands upon islands of waste just floating in the water. I might never go near the beach again. How do we humans manage to be this wasteful only God knows. I don't like the water division, it's a lot of repetitive tasks that remind me of the people in the movies who start their careers, young and vibrant, stamping and end it stamping, old and exhausted. Makes my skin crawl. But there are some things that I got to learn from the repetitive tasks. For instance, in Louisiana, I saw the records left by the old interns. The water level was much lower just a few years ago. One day when I got her the readings from Isle de Jean Charles, she told me a story a boy from Isle de Jean Charles who had joined the internship program and was dismissive of the rising Oceans. She showed me the readings he had taken which were are now half a foot under water. She told us that a year ago his home was damaged by the rising water and he had to relocate to the mainland, becoming a refugee in America. Apparently every hour a football field size of land sinks into the Gulf of Mexico. It sounds fake to me but she has no reason to lie to me. Why would God let something like this happen? It would be insane if the water level rose to cover inhabited land. I asked Gina the same thing. She shrugged and said that the Lord's plan are his own. Sometimes I don't know what God is thinking. Why doesn't he just fix everything so it's good and the people are happy? He should just swoop in and set us on a straight path. That would make life so easy. So very easy........ Also I wanted to remind you and Dad to be ready on May 19th 10 am. I have had difficulty sleeping lately. There is this one prayer that keeps coming in day in day out. I log one, send it upstairs, then the same prayer comes in again and again endlessly. Then the entire family wishes for the same thing and their prayers are fearful, terrified and begging. I just sit, log and upload; helpless. Every day for the past few weeks I have heard the same prayer and my heart is beginning to break. I keep asking myself why God is not fulfilling their wish. He is the Master of All, the Omnipotent, and the Merciful. Yet the same prayer keeps coming. I see it in my dreams. Look within four blocks Ma. There is someone you can help. Love you Freddy May 24th Hey Ma, I had a blast and thank you and Dad for coming. I feel so much better now. The prayer requests are still coming in but I think by focusing on my job I can keep my head clear. Did you enjoy the surprise I was telling you about? God himself gave a speech on Mother's Day. I felt shivers running down my spine. Plus the trick he played with the burning bush on stage. All of us waiting for a voice to come from the bush when he spoke directly into our hearts and minds. I don't think I will ever come down from that high. I remember the look on your faces, standing there tears running down your cheeks. Sad that Jacob couldn't come. Must be eating him up inside when you told him. I heard it was Moses who suggested the prank with the burning bush. Also did I not deliver on my promise to you about swimming with the Whales? These are magnificent beasts. Now you can tell Monica from across the street that you didn't just go Whale watching but you went Whale swimming. That would shut her up about all her adventures. But I am not one to recommend hubris or pride. That is a sin. Gina was asking about you. She said that she really enjoyed your company and was complimenting you about raising such a fine and handsome boy ?. I'm going to miss her when I move onto the next rotation, which will be in the Population Division. Haven't met the supervisor but Gina says that the supervisor there has a lot to teach and if I keep an open mind it will be a great learning experience. We will have to conduct projects and studies in pairs. I looked up who my partner is going to be. Her name is Rebecca, we went to get a cup of coffee at Peter's and to learn a bit about each other. I don't like her Mom. She is a know it all, I don't see her praying ever plus she is mean. I asked her what she expects to learn from the internship and she goes off on a rant about the population overgrowth and how the management is not doing what is best for the world. She spewed some ideas about how she will push for reducing the birth rate overall worldwide so that the burden is reduced on the world resources in the coming decades and launching a program to allow couples to have one baby each. Talk about communist agendas. I am not going to get along with this girl, she is so irritating. I know it, I just know it. Love you Mom. Dad I love you too, I know you read my letters. Freddy